The big mistake most people are making
regarding magnesium, your blood levels
show normal magnesium levels. What a lot
of people don't know is only 1% of all
your magnesium in your body is inside
your blood. 99% is deep in your cells.
When your body is deficient in
magnesium, it will rob magnesium from
your bone, your muscle, and put it in
the blood, giving you the illusion that
you have enough magnesium if you're just
relying on the blood test. There are
more sophisticated, advanced ways to
determine if you're magnesium deficient,
but I'm going to give you the simple way
to figure it out. If you have any muscle
spasms in your body, muscle twitch
underneath the eyelid, anxiety, poor
sleep, sugar cravings, and definitely
Charlie horses are all clues that you're
deficient in magnesium. Typically, with
the diet, you need about 400 milligs of
magnesium every single day. Almonds are
high in magnesium, but you would have to
consume five cups of almonds to get that
400 milligrams. Or you can get your
magnesium from spinach, but you would
have to consume five big handfuls of
spinach just to get 400 millig. What
about chocolate? Isn't that high in
magnesium? It's sort of high, but you
would still need about four bars of
chocolate to get your daily amount of
magnesium. On top of that, there are
many things that don't allow us to
absorb even the magnesium from the food
that you eat. For example, if you have
inflammation in the gut, that's going to
greatly reduce your absorption rates by
up to 60 to 70%. grains in your diet,
refined foods like refined sugar,
starches, that's depleting your
magnesium. And then other things will
deplete your magnesium like alcohol,
caffeine, and also many medications. And
of course, the top selling magnesium
products are not the best ones to take
because not only do they create diarrhea
because they're a laxative, but you
really don't absorb much. Like with
magnesium oxide, you only absorb like 3
to 4%. The one I would recommend is
magnesium glycinate because that's the
one that you absorb 80% and it doesn't
create a laxative effect and the
glycinate part of it will help you
sleep. Magnesium is one of the master
controllers over calcium. You see,
calcium has other purposes other than
just making your bones strong. Calcium
is also used in the body as the main
communication signal between cells. And
far too often we accumulate too much
calcium inside the cell. And if there's
too much calcium in the cell, those
calcium crystals start damaging certain
parts of the cell. Literally, we calcify
as we get older. And you may have heard
of the vitamin K2 being the antidote for
that because vitamin K2 helps to keep
the calcium from accumulating in the
arteries. But magnesium is even more
important in helping to regulate excess
amounts of calcium. Another thing that
magnesium is really good at is
preventing kidney stones. It has 100
times more binding force to the oxalates
than calcium. And then let's talk about
muscle. It's the calcium that causes
muscle to contract and magnesium to
relax. So anytime you have a tight
muscle, that means you have way too much
calcium, but really it's low magnesium.
It's preventing heart attacks, but also
preventing any type of problem with the
rhythm of the heart. You can correct
atriofibrillation by taking enough
magnesium over a period of time, but
sometimes it might take months before
you really correct that deficiency. You
can't correct a very severe deficiency
of magnesium by just taking the
maintenance dose. Sometimes you have to
increase it to 1,000 to 1,500 or more
milligrams every single day over a
period of months. And this also includes
dealing with things like migraine
headaches, pain problems like
fibromyalgia or pain syndromes. They
require a lot more magnesium. And also
mood disorders, people that are
depressed or even have diabetes.
Magnesium greatly helps blood sugar.
It's probably because of the demand that
a high blood sugar situation creates on
magnesium. It depletes magnesium. So the
requirement of magnesium, it's much
higher for a diabetic. Now let's get to
the three secrets. Number one is we used
to get a lot of our magnesium from hard
water. whether it's from a spring, a
well. And then we decided to filter the
water like in city water, or send the
water through a water softener, which
actually removes the calcium and
magnesium and replaces with sodium and
potassium to make the water less
corrosive on the piping and less harsh
in washing your clothes. People don't
consume hard water anymore. In areas in
the country where they don't soften the
water, they have much less risk of
getting heart attacks. And then if you
compare that with areas that do use a
lot of water softeners, the risk of
heart attacks go up. Okay, secret number
two, vitamin D won't work without
magnesium. If you're increasing your
magnesium, also increase your vitamin D
and that way they will both work. And
just as one side note, vitamin B1, which
is really important in reducing stress
and gets depleted when you consume a lot
of carbohydrates, that also is dependent
on magnesium. So when you take more B1,
you need magnesium to allow that to
work. And then the last and most
important secret, magnesium has a super
important role in some of your
biochemistry. Deep in the cell, you have
all sorts of motors that do the work of
the cell. Like the one in the
mitochondria that literally
spins 200 to 400 times a second. It
generates ATP. ATP is the energy
currency of the body. And so your energy
levels, your fatigue is related to how
much magnesium you have. So, yes,
magnesium helps lower cortisol, helps
you sleep, but it also gives you energy.
And if you have any type of fatigue, it
could be because you're deficient in
magnesium. And because magnesium is so
important, if you have not watched my
other video on magnesium, I'll put it up
right here. Check it out.
