What would happen if you drank lemon
water every single day for 30 days? We
are so focused on high blood pressure.
Really, no one's talking about low blood
pressure where you just don't have
enough volume of blood in your body.
When you wake up in the morning, you
have the lowest volume of blood compared
to at the end of the day. When your
blood volume is too low, if you stand up
too fast, you could feel dizzy. Your
blood pressure might even be on the low
side. If we just take an elite athlete
and compare that athlete to an average
person that doesn't really exercise, the
elite athlete is carrying around 50%
more blood volume. You definitely are
not going to have the same performance
when you exercise. You're just not going
to feel quite the same. I do not like
drinking anything in the morning because
typically when I drink liquid in the
morning, I just don't feel right. I'll
drink coffee, but I don't want to drink
anything else until the afternoon. And I
finally realized what that is. And I
want to give you a solution. If you just
drink water, especially in the morning
when you're at the lowest blood volume,
you're basically going to be diluting
these electrolytes, specifically sodium.
That's a huge mistake because you're
going to be more dehydrated because it's
not just water that increases the volume
of blood. You also need to add some salt
and then that salt will allow you to
hold the water in your blood. And so
just a pinch of that sea salt with lemon
is going to make you feel so much
better, especially if you did it for 30
days and especially like 1 hour before
you exercise as well. For some people,
they might even feel better if they add
even more salt. And then if you also
look at the circadian rhythm of the
entire 24 hours, where's the highest
amount of cortisol? In the morning at 8
a.m. And that's when you have the
highest level of cortisol. And did you
know what can lower cortisol is sodium?
That's right. This is why some people
have a little salt before they go to bed
to lower cortisol so they can sleep
better in the morning when cortisol is
very very high. That can also affect
feeling stressed or also mobilizing
sugar from your liver which affects your
blood sugar. What you need to know is
that salt can help reduce cortisol. By
having salt in the morning, you could
start with a stress-free day and with
enough volume of fluid to be able to
have the energy and the exercise that
you need and also to prevent if you get
up too quickly and feel a little dizzy.
You won't have that if you have enough
volume of fluid. That's a salt benefit.
And of course, I would use like a pinch
of Himalayan sea salt. Or if you do have
a tendency to have high blood pressure
and you want more potassium magnesium,
you can use the Baja Gold salt, which is
only 70% sodium, and then the rest is
all these other minerals. But now, let's
talk about the benefits of the lemon. If
you use the fresh lemon, you'll see you
cut it in half and you take both sides
of lemon, you just squeeze them in
there. So, you have the juice of one
lemon, you'll be getting some additional
things that you wouldn't get from bottle
lemon juice, and that would be vitamin
C. Vitamin C is good for skin. It's good
as an antioxidant for the inside of your
arteries. But, you know, having an
actual lemon is not always convenient.
It's It is more convenient when you have
a bottle of lemon juice in your
refrigerator. I would highly recommend
always doing organic lemon juice or an
organic lemon because they use
pesticides and you don't want that in
this drink. There's one thing about
lemons and limes, uh, when you spray
them, they absorb that pesticide inside
the actual lemon. We also have the
benefit of something called citric acid.
Citric acid helps to reduce the risk of
kidney stones because it binds with the
this oxalate thing and then it uh
reduces the chance of the formation of
that stone. Lemon also has a tendency to
reduce the incidence of gout because it
can help lower uric acid. So it's really
good for the kidneys. Certain things in
lemon like the phytonutrients actually
help the phase one phase 2
detoxification in the liver which allows
you to pull out different chemicals. The
lemon also acts on the bile and also the
tartness of the lemon. It helps to uh
thin the bile. It helps to reduce the
incidence of gallstones as it helps to
detoxify the liver. Also, the actual
stomach, the combination of lemon and
salt, it's really good for digestion
because it can stimulate digestive
enzymes and juices to get the digestion
flowing. The properties in lemon can
also help regulate cholesterol issues.
It can provide antioxidants to the
inside of the arteries to help reduce
the risk of certain types of problems
for the heart. The polyphenols in the
lemon actually increase the diversity of
the microbiome. The microbes in your gut
actually thrive, which is pretty wild.
There's certain properties in lemon and
salt that are antimicrobial. Lemons also
can help increase the absorption of
non-heem iron, which is iron in plants.
So, if someone's anemic, taking lemon
juice can help them. Also, as a side
note, if you have a tendency to develop
kidney stones, I would also add
magnesium and potassium to your
protocol. One big mistake with lemon
water, if you're doing this over a
period of time and you're drinking it in
your mouth, it the acidity can affect
your enamel and your teeth. So, I would
highly recommend using a straw and then
of course cleaning out your mouth with
water after you're done. I do my uh
lemon salt water right after I drink my
coffee in the morning. Another thing
that I occasionally do is I'll take an
organic lemon, the whole thing, the peel
and all with the seeds and I will blend
it with a glass of water and then also
add this little uh pinch of sea salt to
it because there are so many additional
things in the actual uh peel itself and
right underneath the peel. All these
boflavonoids are really good for so many
things. But for some people, salty lemon
water might be too tart and they like it
sweet. I would highly recommend adding a
couple drops of liquid stevia and then
we turn this tart thing into lemonade.
It actually is amazing. Your kids would
love it as well. And some people also
add a little bit of apple cider vinegar
to that mix. So that would be one
tablespoon if you wanted to take it to
the next level. But anyway, I just
wanted to give you this simple quick tip
to see if it can help you. If it does,
please comment down below.
