Hey, Dr. Bur here again. Today we're
going to talk about the multivvitamin
mineral scam. And yes, it is a scam. You
go to any GNC and you're going to find
one a day, okay? Or or multivitamin
mineral products with the absolute worst
cheapest ingredients on the planet. So,
let's first start with the ingredients.
When you read the back of the
ingredients on these bottles, the first
ingredient is always calcium carbonate.
What is that? That's limestone. And
also, you need to realize that first
ingredient is usually the majority of
the product. So, this is why these
vitamin bottles are so heavy because we
have rocks in them. There's two things
you have to be careful about taking in a
supplement. One is iron because our
bodies have a very difficult time
getting rid of it. Number two, calcium
and especially the carbonate version
because the body has to literally go
through many different steps. I think up
to 12 steps before it gets absorbed. So,
we're not talking about the calcium that
comes from cheese or dairy. We're
talking about a calcium in the earth.
So, it's a very different form of
calcium. All right. The next ingredient
you're going to see in a lot of these
products is magnesium oxide. Again,
another very inexpensive ingredient. And
the type of magnesium is very important
because magnesium oxide has the lowest
bioavailability, the absorption. So,
we're talking about like 3 to 4% gets
absorbed versus magnesium glycinate,
which is more expensive, but you absorb
80%. Some people say, "Well, it's cheap.
That's fine. I'll just take more." Well,
the more you take, the more it becomes a
laxative, so it comes with a package. It
might be good if you have constipation,
but other than that, that's not the form
that I would recommend. Then, we have
the next ingredient, ascorbic acid. You
have two types of vitamins. You have uh
synthetic and natural. And even the
synthetic ones which are more man-made
in a lab, they can call them natural
because there's no legal definition of
the word natural because synthetic could
come from petroleum and that comes from
nature, right? Or colar. Well, that's
from nature. It could be natural. You
will probably hear from certain medical
experts that there's no difference
between natural and synthetic. If we're
looking at the molecule, it's the same
molecular structure at the basic level.
But let me just ask you this. How can
you tell me that you're going to take
colar, okay, and you're going to take
other chemicals and you're going to
synthesize a vitamin and you're going to
tell me that's the same as something
that came from nature? You can't say
that. And even if you look at the
chemistry, it's not 100% the same
because there's certain versions of that
synthetic that don't really get absorbed
in our body. So, you can't say they're
exactly identical. In nature, these
vitamins never come as an isolated
fraction. They come as a package with a
lot of different things. And this is why
number four, what is missing is
something called co-factors. A co-actor
is something that actually helps
something. If we take a look at this uh
book right here in biochemistry, this is
one of my favorite books in
biochemistry, biochemistry and molecular
biology by William Elliot. You know,
when I took biochemistry in college,
what they didn't really emphasize is the
co-actors. Co-actors are vitamins and
minerals. Biochemistry cannot work
without co-actors, without vitamins and
minerals. That's one of the purposes of
why we need nutrition, okay? For these
biochemical pathways to occur. If we're
dealing with making hair and body tissue
or even breaking down food, all these
chemical pathways require certain
nutrition. Now, that's one purpose of
nutrition. I'm kind of bouncing in this
presentation, but I think it's important
to know why we need nutrients in the
first place. Why would you need a
multivitamin and mineral? Well, because
we can't get it from food. That's true,
but now you're going to get it from a
multivitamin that is synthetic with a
lot of additional things in there and
fillers. You may not be getting what you
think you're getting. We need vitamins
and minerals for co-actors. We also need
vitamins and minerals to activate our
genes. Like even vitamin D activates
over 2,000 genes, right? And then you
have other vitamins that are involved in
the making of neurotransmitters in body
tissue. In nature, you never see this
one single vitamin. It's always in a
complex. And this is why I'm very much
against taking just one specific vitamin
unless it has the other co-actors
because eventually you're going to
deplete these co-actors if you're taking
just one vitamin, especially in higher
doses. There's other fillers as well.
Maltodextrin is a big one. I didn't know
this until I actually kind of got more
familiar with the manufacturing
companies in vitamins and minerals. This
is a really common filler that they use
in so many different vitamins to turn
things into like a powder and they dry
it. They have to use some type of
carrier and multidextrin is a big one.
What is multidextrin? Multidextrin is a
highly refined industrial starch. So
here's an example of an industrial
starch right here. corn starch. We're
talking about a type of corn that's not
even edible. It's called field corn or
dent corn. Very cheap. I mean, the
taxpayers actually even subsidize that
corn. So, the price comes down to like
under $200 per cubic ton. You can
imagine how much of this stuff you can
get for just pennies. And this is why
they use it. It's a cheap filler. But
it's not just a cheap filler. It comes
with a package. It's not even classified
as a sugar. It's classified as a complex
carbohydrate. I'm like, what? Like,
well, you mean like a potato or like
rice? No, no, no, no, no. How can it be
that if it acts so much like a sugar and
it's so refined already? When you
consume it, your blood sugar spike way
more than any sugar that you would eat,
but somehow there's a a legal loophole
that they can call it a complex
carbohydrate or a starch, but it behaves
like a sugar. So when you have this in
your supplements, you're just basically
jacking up your blood sugar, which could
easily nullify the benefits. When we
talk about scorbic acid, people think,
"Oh, vitamin C." Well, this is a
synthesized version of a part of the
vitamin C complex called ascorbic acid,
which is an antioxidant part. And they
make ascorbic acid usually like 90%
plus is made in China. And they make it
from GMO corn. And they also add
sulfuric acid to it. So here they're
taking this gosh corn again everything
is like made from corn adding sulfuric
acid chemically making this ascorbic
acid and packaging it in a very uh
beautiful way. So you think you're
getting this wow I'm getting this
vitamin C. It's probably similar to the
vitamin C from oranges. No, it's an
industrial product. Now I'm not saying
that vitamin C doesn't work. Even the
synthetic version doesn't work. All I'm
saying is that I think it's important to
know where it really comes from and
there is a big difference between the
natural versus synthetic. Uh if you look
at the whole picture and especially if
you compare it to nature then we get
into cyanocobalamine.
Again the synthetic version of B12. A
lot of people have a genetic issue
absorbing or converting into the active
form of B12 and folate which is vitamin
B9. And so if they're taking the
synthetic version like folic acid, not
folate, or the cyanolcoamine
versus methylcobalamine, there could be
a problem because it doesn't get
converted and it backs up into the
system. The point is if you take too
much of that and you have that genetic
issue, which by the way over 40% of the
population has that problem, they can
end up with side effects. The other
interesting thing about the ingredients
is where do the raw materials actually
come from to make these multivitamin
mineral products. There's really only
three maybe four companies right now
that sell the raw ingredients for all of
these synthetic vitamins and they're
chemical companies. And so that's where
you're really getting these natural
sounding vitamins. They have great
marketing and pictures on the label is
coming from a chemical company. So,
you're getting more chemicals
synthesized into what you think is
natural, but it's really not. That's the
ingredients. We talked about the
fillers. Let's talk about the ownership.
Nearly 100%
of all of these big multivitamin mineral
products that are sell these products in
the billions are basically owned by big
pharma or big food or big chemical or
large investment groups. Okay? They are
not small companies, mom and pop shop.
It's hard to know who's behind them as
far as an individual. This is the
problem with any products. You want to
kind of know who's behind the product
and can you trust them. Uh,
unfortunately, big pharma has a history
of criminal actions. So, we're dealing
with a lot of fraud within the big
pharma industry. And so, I personally
want to know who's behind my vitamin and
do they have a good track record? And
what's their vision for the future? Is
it to make more quality vitamins or is
it to make cheaper vitamins? And that's
really what you're dealing with. You're
getting the cheapest thing possible so
people can afford it, but at the cost of
quality. Now I also mentioned what's
missing
actual
natural from nature vitamins and also
these co-actors right here. So you have
vitamins and minerals and trace minerals
or co-actors that help biochemistry. But
in nature you also have phytonutrients
and that rarely ever comes in these
products that I talked about unless it's
in the synthetic form. And what's the
purpose of those? oil, antioxidant,
anti-inflammatory. There are so many
different great health effects that
occur from phytonutrients. And this is a
lot about how they come up with certain
drugs. They model it after uh natural
remedies, especially antioxidants and
phytonutrients, and then they try to
synthesize it and then they mess it up.
And then there's this last point I want
to talk about. Standardized uh does not
equal pure extract. If you look at the
back of a nutritional label, okay? And
let's say for example, you're buying
Jins Singh extract and it says 100
milligrams and it says standardized to
10% of this the active compound in Jins
Singh which is.5 milligrams. You're
thinking oh I must be getting a small
portion of the active version in a blend
of ginsing. No, what you're getting is
only 0.5%
of this with 95%
a filler. That's right. And that could
be silica. It could be maltodextrin. Any
of these fillers. This is just another
label loophole that they try to, you
know, scam more people. Even with some
of the vitamins that I sell, I had to
pay more to the manufacturing company to
not have it with these hidden fillers.
And I have to constantly police that
because most of the raw material out
there has all these additional things
that you don't want in your supplement.
Who owns some of the top multivitamin
mineral products? Well, Centrum Silver.
Centrum is owned by Fizer One a Day by
Bear, the same company that now owns
Roundup Ready. Then we got Nature Made
is also owned by another drug company
that uh sells Ailifi. But if we don't
even talk about multivitamin mineral,
just the top hundred vitamin companies
on planet Earth, they're owned by 14
companies that are literally either big
pharma, big food, aka junk food
industry, or big chemical companies. And
so I think it was just important to
increase your awareness of what's really
behind many of these multivitamin
products. and they just might not be as
natural as you might think. Now, since
we're on the topic of natural and
synthetic, there's a very, very
interesting video I did a while ago on
natural versus synthetic vitamin C that
you must see. And I'm going to put that
right here. Check it out right now.
