The number one sign that you're low in
potassium. But actually, I'm going to
give you seven signs with the most
common one last. But you first need to
know this one number right here, 4,700
mg. This is the amount of potassium that
an average person needs every single
day. And if you take a look at all of
the nutrient requirements out there,
calcium, magnesium, vitamin C, there is
nothing that is even close to this high
as a requirement. Why do we need so
much? Yet less than 3% of Americans hit
this number right here. And realize,
this is only the RDA, just the bare
bones you need to get by, not the
therapeutic dose that you need to
correct anything. That means that 97 out
of 100 people are low in potassium. And
rarely does anyone even know it. And
really, the great majority of people
aren't even hitting half of this per
day. So, the question is not, am I
deficient? It's how deficient you are.
And these symptoms I'm going to cover
will tell you how deficient you are.
Let's hear them right now.
Number seven, constipation. And this is
surprising for a lot of people because
they don't connect the dots between
potassium and constipation. And
potassium controls the smooth muscles of
the body. Your entire colon is all
smooth muscle. So, if you don't have
enough potassium, you can't control the
contraction and relaxation of the muscle
in the colon. And then all of a sudden
it starts backing up because you no
longer have that pumping action. There's
even this condition in hospitals where
someone is very deficient in potassium.
They call it paralytic ileus, which
basically means your small intestine is
paralyzed. It doesn't work anymore. And
that usually happens after surgery,
which brings up another point. When
someone goes through any type of
surgical procedure, I don't care what
procedure, when your body goes through
surgery, it's very, very traumatic and
stressful, even though the central
nervous system is unconscious. Your body
is still feeling it. And so, this is why
a lot of times they give you a potassium
IV because you get this massive spike of
cortisol and adrenaline that happens in
the body, which then causes this
flushing response of potassium. And if
you don't have enough potassium, you can
have a lot of complications. And one is
this paralysis of the intestine, which
then brings us to number six, bloating
and water retention. When people think
of bloating, they usually think, oh, I
ate something that's bloating me. They
don't think of a potassium deficiency
that can bloat you. But when potassium
goes down, the kidneys stop flushing
sodium. And then you start retaining
fluid. Potassium and sodium work
together to balance fluids. And a lot of
people are stuck on this, oh, I have too
much sodium. Actually, you just don't
have enough potassium. Sodium holds
water, but potassium releases that water
or puffiness or swelling that you have
in the body. So, a lot of people ask me,
what supplements do I recommend? Now, of
course, I'm not biased in my own
high-quality supplement line. But if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg
supplements,
you'll find more information. Let's go
to number five, frequent urination and
excessive thirst. Typically, when we
think about that, we think about a
diabetic, right? They have blood sugar
problems. They're always urinating, they
urinate at night, they're also thirsty.
But it can also be a potassium
deficiency, which is very surprising.
Low potassium slows down the kidneys'
ability to concentrate urine. So,
instead of producing urine, it's getting
rid of urine. So, the kidneys start
producing this large amount of diluted
urine, and then you pee more. So, this
can be a loss of potassium. And then
there's another connection with
potassium and insulin because when we
talk about diabetes, we think insulin,
insulin resistance. So, the way it works
is kind of a two-way flow.
In the pancreas, you have these little
cells that control insulin. That cell,
the beta cell, is dependent on
potassium. So, you need potassium to
regulate insulin. And this is why
diabetics are usually always very
deficient in potassium. And this is also
why people that are very deficient
potassium tend to be more of a
prediabetic or even a diabetic. So, this
comes down to what I've been talking
about in a lot of my videos. People need
more electrolytes, especially potassium
in sufficient amounts, but they also
need to be on a low-carb diet. Both of
those together produce huge positive
effects on your health. And of course,
if you're a diabetic, you should be
eating more foods high in potassium or
even taking potassium to help reduce the
need for medication.
So, you can regulate blood sugar better.
And of course, that also relates to
number four, tingling and numbness,
especially in your feet, sometimes in
the hands. Now, we think about that as
peripheral neuropathy, which comes from
diabetic symptoms, but it can also be a
potassium deficiency
regardless of being a diabetic because
potassium is involved in nerve impulses,
okay? And so, if there's not enough
potassium, the nervous system doesn't
work effectively. So, this is not just a
B12 deficiency or a B1 deficiency, it
could be a potassium deficiency as well.
In order for a nerve impulse to move or
travel,
potassium is needed. So, when you think
about potassium, think about electrical
charge. And this is why it can also
relate to where the nerves go. They go
to muscles. So, you could have muscle
problems in the heart or even in the
skeletal muscle as a cramp. And I know
in other videos I talk about that being
a magnesium deficiency. Well, stay tuned
because we're going to talk a little bit
more about that as well. Number three is
high pulse rate. Quick story.
When I was getting married many years
ago, my wife and I were at a restaurant,
which was an Italian restaurant,
consuming a lot of pasta. And we're
really into this great conversation. And
apparently, we were the last people in
the restaurant. And then I noticed one
of the waiters was going past us with
this cart of all these desserts.
And they approached us and they said,
listen, before we throw these out, do
you guys want to sample any of these?
And of course, I'm always like, well,
you don't want to waste food. So, of
course, we're going to sample them. And
we did sample every single dessert. So,
after consuming a massive carbohydrate
meal, okay? And now all this sugar, and
I'm talking about a lot of sugar, what I
didn't realize at the time was when you
consume that much sugar and refined
carbohydrates,
the need for potassium goes straight up
and vertical. In other words, you are
going to suddenly become deficient in
potassium. And one of the first signs
you're going to notice is higher pulse
rate.
Your heart's going to be labored. It's
going to produce these pounding
heartbeats. So, when you put your head
on the pillow and you actually hear this
pulse beat, boom, boom, boom, boom,
think low potassium. Little did I know
that if I took some potassium, that
would have brought my pulse rate down
and I would have drifted off into a
wonderful sleep. Okay, number two, heart
palpitations. I briefly mentioned this.
In other videos I talked about heart
palpitations or atrial fibrillation
being a magnesium deficiency, but also
it could be a potassium deficiency
because both of those electrolytes work
together on the pacemaker of the heart.
They keep the heart in rhythm because
they're intimately involved with the
electrical voltage to the heartbeat. So,
if we take a look deeply into what this
potassium is really doing, we have a
combination of two pumps. One is the
sodium-potassium
pump, okay? This is a little pump that
allows the electrical charge to develop
in the nervous system that then can
actually activate the muscles. And then
deep in the mitochondria, you have
another pump that makes energy, that's
ATP. And that requires magnesium. So, we
need magnesium to make the energy, which
is involving this little pump. But also,
we need that magnesium energy
in this other pump to allow this other
pump to work. And I'm talking about the
sodium-potassium pump. So, in other
words, the sodium-potassium pump is
dependent on magnesium. It doesn't work
independently. It needs magnesium. And
this is why when you take an electrolyte
powder, you need all the electrolytes,
not just one. All right, so now let's go
into number one, the most common sign of
a potassium deficiency.
This is the most misdiagnosed, most
biochemically profound sign,
which is this.
Persistent
fatigue
and muscle weakness that does not get
better
when you sleep or rest. You feel tired,
you feel heavy, you feel slow, you feel
sluggish, you're foggy mentally, think
potassium. Don't buy into, well, I must
be just getting older. That's not it,
okay? It's usually a potassium
deficiency. Why do I say that? Because
less than 3% of Americans
hit this RDA for potassium. All right,
now that you know this information,
there's one more super common disease.
Actually, it's probably the most chronic
disease in the US. It affects over 120
million Americans. And what's really
bizarre is 90% of this disease is
classified as an unknown cause. 50 years
and billions of dollars of research, and
they cannot find the cause
of high blood pressure. Well, I disagree
100% and I created an entire video on
this topic. You must watch it right now.
Check it out. It's right here.
