A lot of people think they're tired,
inflamed, and stressed for no reason.
When in reality, they have one huge
mineral deficiency, and that is
magnesium. Today, we're going to discuss
the nine hidden magnesium deficiency
symptoms that most doctors don't even
realize. Most of the storage of
magnesium is inside your bones as well
as inside your cells. only onethird to
1% that's 0.3%
of your magnesium is in your blood
serum. And so the worst mistake that
people make, especially doctors, when
they're evaluating magnesium, is to
depend on this blood level of magnesium.
That is a big mistake. Let's say you
want to determine someone's wealth by
having them show you what they have in
their wallet as far as their coins. That
is not a good place to determine their
wealth. You want to look actually in
their bank account. you don't want to
look in their pocket. Well, that's the
exact mistake that a lot of people make
when they're looking into the blood for
not just magnesium, but other nutrients
as well. There's over 300 medications
that can deplete your magnesium. Let me
also just show you all the other things
that can deplete your magnesium. Stress,
sugar, caffeine, alcohol, having high
levels of insulin because your carbs are
too high. And a large percent of the
population has insulin resistance. So,
they can't even absorb the normal
amounts of magnesium. Low hydrochloric
acid in your stomach, chances are you
don't have enough hydrochloric acid.
We've already covered the medication.
Low salt and low vitamin D can all lower
your magnesium levels. Now, let's go
through the hidden magnesium deficiency
symptoms. Number one, anxiety. I'm
talking about a sudden anxiety that
comes out of nowhere. There's no real
reason to have anxiety and all of a
sudden you feel anxious. could also be a
panic attack as well. You want to think
about magnesium as your breaks. Okay?
And without magnesium, you have no
breaks. So then you can't stabilize the
nervous system. All right. Number two,
waking up at 2:00 a.m. This many times
can be related to high levels of
cortisol. Now, there's many reasons why
people have cortisol in the middle of
the night. It could be a blood sugar
issue. It could be a stress issue. But
one of the key things that magnesium
does is it suppresses and it keeps
cortisol under control. Now a really
classic deficiency of magnesium would be
eye twitching. That's called tetany.
It's a classic magnesium deficiency. And
what's happening deep inside the muscle
is that magnesium because it's the
master controller over calcium. There's
an imbalance. We have too much calcium
and not enough magnesium to control it.
So the simplicity of this is calcium
controls the contraction okay of the
muscle. Magnesium controls the
relaxation and if there's not enough
magnesium all you get is this
contraction this tetany and it is the
mineral to prevent calcification in your
body. If you take a look at even heart
attacks, for example, deep in your
cells, you have calcium crystals
building up in the mitochondria that
then interfere with the normal
contraction and relaxation. Magnesium
will keep your joints from calcifying.
Magnesium keeps the arteries from
becoming stiff. I mean, think about how
many people have high blood pressure as
they get older, which many times is
merely a magnesium deficiency.
Migraines, headaches can be a magnesium
deficiency. Think about how many people
have muscle spasms. If you could just
kind of scan your body and you have
tight muscles anywhere, chances are you
need more magnesium. Next one is heart
pounding after eating. Magnesium is so
important to relax the heart. Many of
the heart medications really mimic the
magnesium effect. So without magnesium,
the arteries get stiff, they contract,
blood pressure goes up. that can lead to
atrial fibrillation, which is a very
common and classic magnesium deficiency
for which you need a lot of magnesium
over a long period of time. And don't
worry, at the end of the video, I'm
going to show you what type of magnesium
you should take and when to take it and
how much to take it. Number five is
feeling exhausted from thinking, right?
Because at the very foundation of the
creation of energy, you need magnesium
in the mitochondria. So just thinking
too much actually makes you tired. But
magnesium can easily fix that. Our brain
is only 2% of our whole body, but it
uses 20% of the energy. Next one is
random chest tightness. Now, you might
be thinking heart attack, but if you're
low in magnesium, you won't have that
relaxation of the smooth muscle. Low
magnesium allows calcium to go into the
heart tissues and start to cause more
contraction and more tightness. Next
one, number seven, is sugar or
carbohydrate cravings. So, I've noticed
when I put people on magnesium, many
times they don't crave as much as they
did before and they're really surprised
because they thought it was just a carb
craving that wasn't connected to
anything. But magnesium can greatly help
reduce those cravings very easily. Next
one is wired but tired. You go to bed
and you lay there and you just can't get
into a deep, restful, relaxed sleep.
Magnesium helps calm the brain, calm the
muscles, and without magnesium, your
brain and your body just has this
nervous energy. It can't relax. Another
symptom that's related that I didn't put
on this list is restless leg syndrome.
That could be a magnesium deficiency,
too, where your legs are just full of
energy and you need to either massage
the legs or go for a jog in the middle
of the night. I had that for many, many
months. Last one. Number nine is feeling
really heavy. Like you feel like you're
200 lbs. It's like what's going on? My
legs are heavy. I feel like I'm trudging
through water. What is going on? That is
a magnesium deficiency. And this is
because the energy factories called the
mitochondria are dependent on magnesium
and you don't have enough to power the
mitochondria. So basically it's taking
more effort to move your body and your
muscles. Now let's talk about what type
of magnesium is best. What magnesium is
the worst is magnesium oxide. That is
the magnesium that they sell at CVS
drugstores. It's the type of magnesium
that most the research on magnesium is
done with. And the problem with
magnesium oxide is you only absorb 3%.
Okay, 3%. And so you'd have to take a
tremendous amount to have it work. But
the problem is when you take more you
get diarrhea. So a much better source of
magnesium is magnesium glycinate. With
magnesium glycinate, you not only have
magnesium, but you also have glycine,
which is a type of protein that helps
GABA in our brain. So, it's really good
for calming us down, helping us sleep,
and you absorb 80%. Now, some people
will say, "Oh, magnesium glycinate
doesn't cross the bloodb brain barrier,
so it can't really affect our sleep."
But that's actually not true because a
lot of mechanisms that involve sleep are
not actually even in the brain. They're
in your gut. They're in your tissues.
And so by giving your body more
magnesium, it can indirectly affect the
brain. The best time to take magnesium
is toward the later part of the day. I
like to take mine after dinner sometime.
Sometimes I'll take pills, sometimes
I'll take powder. Powder is much easier
to take. You mix it with some water. You
drink it down. If you mix it with warmer
water, it will completely dissolve.
Sometimes I don't have time to warm the
water and sip it like tea, so I'll just
put it in cold water and slug it down.
And one thing you need to know, when you
take more than 400 milligrams of
magnesium glycinate at any one time, it
goes through the urine. Okay? So our
bodies can only absorb certain amounts
at a time. If you really wanted to
create a therapeutic benefit, let's say
you're dealing with atrial fibrillation
or some type of major deficiency like
osteoporosis,
you would want to take magnesium
glycinate 300 milligrams to 400
milligrams several times a day. Okay?
And that way you can get much more
absorption. A couple of things that will
help you. Going in a lowcarb diet, low
carb diet to fix insulin resistance.
That will allow you to absorb more
magnesium. Also, if you're getting
older, if you're over the age of 50 or
60, chances are you have low
hydrochloric acid. And the way that you
know you have that is if you have like
any indigestion or heartburn or gird in
which case if you took something called
betane hydrochloride not only would that
fix your stomach but you're going to
absorb a lot more magnesium and other
minerals.
And also it takes vitamin D to absorb
magnesium and it also takes magnesium to
absorb vitamin D. Most people are
deficient in vitamin D. Taking both of
those can go a long way in a lot of
different problems. Also, be careful
with the caffeine. A lot of people drink
way too much coffee. I'll do one small
cup of coffee in the morning and that's
it for the day. And once you do that,
since we're on the topic of magnesium, I
have another video for you describing
the different types of magnesium. And I
put that video right here. Check it out.
