I have survived the world's unhealthiest
diet and it almost killed me. This is
actually a confession. I consumed, and
I'm not kidding, 12 donuts without even
the thought that it was going to affect
my blood sugar. I didn't even know about
blood sugar at the time. Now, of course,
if I did that now, I would just be a
basket case. But my entire childhood was
filled with sugar, starch, seed oils,
sweetened cereals every single morning.
Every Halloween, I would consume the
entire amount of candy that I had that
night at social events. Oh my gosh. I
would consume a case of soda. I would do
chicken papies, like four of them. And
in addition to that, I would have TV
dinners. And every single night after
dinner, I would literally graze from the
time I would stop dinner until the time
I was ready to go to bed. It was a
constant grazing every single night. And
then when I was 16, I worked at the
movie theater, okay? I was the popcorn
maker and I would come home with garbage
bags filled with popcorn. And so my dad
and I would sit there and watch TV and
just graze and down so much popcorn. It
was crazy. I was in the military, went
through basic training, ate more junk
food, refined foods, a lot of stress, no
sleep. Then I went into college, more
stress, lots of coffee, lots of junk
food. Of course, they were all deep
fried carbs and seed oil, but that's
what I was living on. And of course,
then came the ulcers. I had liver
problems. I had gallbladder problems. I
didn't know at the time that's what it
was, but I had this very full, tight,
painful feeling underneath my right rib
cage that referred to my right shoulder.
I had no idea that was my liver. But
after the years of eating the huge bags
of Doritos,
I said, you know, I'm going to eat
healthy when I graduate. That was my
justification. I remember after I
graduated, in practice, I would have a
pint of Ben & Jerry's ice cream every
single night before I went to bed. And I
always wondered why did I get restless
leg syndrome? That was a severe B1
deficiency. I didn't know at the time.
There I was nervous and jittery and I
had to get the energy out. And of course
then came the insomnia. My eyelids were
on fire. It was like sandpaper in my
eyelids and very very sticky and dry.
That was a severe blood sugar issue. I
had severe arthritis down my spine and
my fingers. I got kidney stones. And you
would think with all those problems I
would change my ways. I would try but I
would fail. I finally weighed 211
pounds. The food that I was eating was
not really satisfying me. That problem
was something completely different. It
was dopamine hunger. Dopamine is
stimulated with a lot of refined carbs
and sugar keeping these dopamine spikes
going on and on and on. Dopamine is not
a pleasure neurotransmitter. It's a
neurotransmitter that causes drive and
anticipation for something. It's
something that your body learns from to
want more and more of it. But it's not
the thing that gives you the pleasure.
The problem is it's a trap. Because as
this drive for more junk food occurs,
you get less pleasure from it to the
point where the feedback loop sends a
signal back telling the body to make
more and more and more dopamine. What
happens over time if you eat a lot of
junk food or you have too much dopamine,
you start getting resistance and that
little receptor for dopamine gets sucked
into the cell to the point where you
have fewer receptors. So now we have
dopamine dysregulation. We have a
problem with dopamine and this is what's
behind addictions. Okay? And I had a
severe addiction to junk food and
refined carbs. And this is why
ultrarocessed foods initially taste good
and they satisfy you for a little bit,
but probably an hour, an hour and a half
later, you now are hungry, but you're
not really hungry. You have this
neurotransmitter that's kicked in there
causing you to want that same thing over
and over and over again. It's really a
trap. And if you have this dopamine
problem and you go back to real food, it
doesn't give you the same sensation
because your receptors are all messed up
and there's confusion in the brain. So
you just want more junk food to get more
of this. So that mechanism was literally
training me to go off track and want the
wrong foods. So now let's talk about how
to solve this problem because the first
thing you need to do is identify the
real enemy. The real enemy
is this.
It's your environment. Because our food
system has been completely engineered
for addiction. As soon as you're
stressed, tired, or somewhat hungry
because your blood sugar is off, you
will not be able to have willpower. I
don't care how hard you try, you're
going to cave eventually. It's kind of
like giving an alcoholic a job at a
liquor store. They're going to end up
drinking that alcohol. I mean, look what
happens when you go into a grocery
store. You have aisles of pure refined
carbohydrate junk snacks. When you're
hungry or tired, you will walk out with
junk food. I guarantee. Recently, I went
into people's houses doing the videos on
trying to teach them about what to eat.
And I go in the refrigerators and I go
in their pantry and I see the same thing
over and over and over again. Just so
much junk food. And they're in an
environment where they are exposed to it
constantly. And there's certain health
experts that keep giving this advice.
You just got to try harder. everything
in moderation. You just have to have
willpower. It's all about calories. Just
eat less. It's portion control, right?
Take a look at Weight Watchers. What is
their success rate? It's like 95%
failure because they're trying to
motivate people. The enemy is not a lack
of willpower. It's your environment.
We're living in this modern world which
is a trap with so many things engineered
to keep us hooked and addicted. Removing
you from all the triggers is really the
only solution. That way all these
options are not available. There's only
one option and it's a healthy food.
Let's go through step by step what you
need to do to get out of the trap and
focus on the environment first. Number
one, clean out all of the ultrarocessed
foods out of your entire house. I'm
talking about your refrigerator and your
pantry. It's been making you sick. It's
the stuff that causes disease and
diabetes. It's not helping you. And to
have this food in the house is not a
good strategy. It's going to keep you
going off track all the time. Now, I'm
going to put a little link down below
and at the end of this video, you can go
to it and you can download a free app.
It's Dr. Berg Junk Food Meter to be able
to scan these different foods one by
one. So, you can really quickly
determine what is ultrarocessed foods.
Alterprocessed foods are really mostly
made of three ingredients: seed oils,
industrial starches, and sugars. If you
think about it, what's missing from
those ingredients? Protein. And then
also foods that are not as calorie dense
that take work to break down and digest
and that would be vegetables or like a
salad, right? Veggies because protein
will help your blood sugar and really
truly satisfy you and it's loaded with
nutrition as well. Okay, so this is
number one. Number two, absolutely
positively no snacking. Why? because
we're trying to correct insulin and
every time you eat, no matter if it's
healthy or not, you spike insulin. And
so both of these will help reverse the
insulin damage. Grazing at night is the
worst time to snack. So you should
literally after dinner, turn the lights
off, put a sign there, the kitchen is
closed, so that way you can
overemphasize. You don't want to be
grazing after dinner. You want to be
able to eat and then not eat until the
next day. Number three, no food visible.
So many people on their countertops,
they have these little bowls of food.
Sometimes they're healthy food. I would
not keep that food out there. Keep all
this food in the refrigerator or the
pantry where you cannot see it because
just the visual cues are going to
trigger dopamine. Number four,
substitute foods. There are so many
recipes for the things that people
crave. I have a whole channel on this. I
will put a link down below. So that way
you can at least have substitute foods
to gradually come off your addictions.
I'm sorry, your junk foods. All right.
Number five, no blue light at night. The
screens, the computers, the cell phones,
that gives off blue light. And you
should probably get a monitor that
filters out a lot of this blue light,
but the blue light severely interferes
with your sleep cycles. If you're not
sleeping, what's going to happen is your
blood sugar is going to cause you to
want to graze or eat the wrong things.
So many people eat junk food because
they're tired because they didn't sleep.
Number six, the grocery store. Make it a
personal rule that you never go to the
grocery store unless you're fed first
and you have a list of foods you're
going to get. Don't be just going there
mindless just looking around. Hm, what
should I buy? What am I in the mood for?
Because you're not asking your real
self. You're asking your dopamine self
and it's going to give you the wrong
answer when you go in that grocery
store. Okay, here's the grocery store.
Go around the perimeter. Okay, don't go
inside. That's where they have most of
the junk food. Of course, they have the
junk food when you check out, too. But
this facility is a trap. This is where
people cave and they buy the wrong
things and then they bring it home and
they have to keep saying no over and
over and over again. I have finally
gotten out of the trap when I go to the
grocery store. Boy, I do not buy
anything that's not on the list that I
bring in there. But as I'm going through
the grocery store, I'm looking around
and I'm seeing these people what they're
buying and I'm like I'm not saying
anything, but I'm like, "Wow, boy. I can
see you have a spike in dopamine."
Number seven, preserve your sleep. Sleep
greatly helps stabilize your blood sugar
and reduces cravings. big time. Number
eight, social events. This is a killer
right here. It's such a social natural
thing to give people sweets and certain
foods that maybe they shouldn't eat and
maybe even go there and bring some food
to share and then that way you can have
something to fall back on. So many times
I've been to social events where they
didn't have anything I could eat at all
and that was a problem. do what you can
to be more in control of this
environment right here and try to limit
the damage control that's going to
happen when you go to some of these
social events. Some people as part of
their work, boy, they go to a lot of
social events and they have to go out to
dinner a lot. But you can personally be
a trends setter and maybe have the
social event at your house where you can
then control the food. I have a free
download that I want to give to you.
This free download is my daily routine
and a checklist. This is a routine that
I use every day to feel like I'm 18
years old even though I'm 60 years old.
And I want to give it to you for free.
And so there's a little link down below.
Click it and definitely download that.
So now that you understand that
environment should be your priority to
reorganize things, the next most
important thing you should just master
is all the elements to perfect your
sleep. And for that information, you
should watch this video right here.
