Hello, Dr. Burke here. Today we're going
to talk about the most dangerous
diseases that don't give you many
symptoms. Now, if you take a hammer and
hit your thumb and you have pain, that's
going to be an immediate symptom, right?
But a lot of other symptoms, which we're
going to talk about, are way late on the
chain of events. In fact, there are no
symptoms for 10 to 20 years with high
blood pressure. Type 2 diabetes takes 15
to 20 years before you start noticing
major symptoms. Liver disease. In some
cases, you could have 75% damage in your
liver before you even get a symptom.
Kidney disease, it's even more dramatic.
You could literally run your whole body.
I'm talking about filtering all your
blood on one kidney. The body survives
in just a small percentage of our
organs. It's incredible. In fact, a lot
of times it takes up to 90% of the
damage before you start noticing
significant symptoms of latestage kidney
disease. Now, what about
atherosclerosis? This is plaquing in the
arteries. You're not going to notice
very many symptoms until 70% is blocked.
There's so many people that go to the
doctor and they find their arteries are
really shut down, but they don't really
have any symptom to know that that's
happening. What about colon cancer? I
know quite a few people who ended up
with stage 4 without even having any
symptom at all. And it's really
mind-blowing is you go to the doctor to
actually turn off your warning signs to
get rid of your symptoms. They treat
them directly. They don't look into root
cause of these issues. They give you a
medication to manage the symptoms so you
don't feel them. And then a lot of
people when they actually get this later
stage warning sign is they either ignore
it or they consider it a normal part of
aging. Normal fatigue, normal stiffness,
normal high blood pressure because
everyone is on a blood pressure
medication. getting up throughout the
night, urinating, normal belly fat,
normal craving for sugar or frequent
hunger. This next part is going to get
really interesting and then I'm going to
go into four habits that can get at the
root of a lot of these major problems
that you might have. So, let's get
started and talk about what's really
happening when we get type 2 diabetes or
high blood pressure. There's actually a
compensation going on. Part of your body
doesn't have oxygen. the body is going
to compensate by increasing the pressure
to increase more volume of nutrition and
oxygen to that part of the body. The
best condition to talk about to give you
an example of that is type 2 diabetes.
Just take a look at this for a second.
What is normal blood sugar? It should be
about 80 milligrams per deciliter. 80 is
one teaspoon of sugar for all of your
blood. Explain something to me. The
average person consumes way more than
one teaspoon. But how could they
possibly have normal blood sugar?
There's a compensation going on. And
that compensation is called insulin.
Insulin acts as like a vacuum cleaner.
And it sucks the sugar out as fast as
you eat it, converting it to this thing
right here for about 15 to 20 years
until it becomes dysfunctional. And
eventually, it's going to become so
toxic, it could put holes in your
arteries. So the body's going to raise
insulin to clean all this sugar out to
protect you. It's trying to help you. It
pulls it out and it has to convert it
into some storage as fat. Okay? So it
goes into your belly. It goes into the
organs. It goes into the liver. And this
is going on for 15 to 20 years. Okay?
You're not going to notice too many
symptoms other than belly fat, right?
Maybe some fatigue until one day your
pancreas has had enough. And basically
the cells in your pancreas start to get
so tired they can't produce its insulin
anymore. That's really what insulin
resistance is. It's a total compensation
for too much sugar that then leads to
pre-diabetes and type 2 diabetes over
time. Now let's go to liver for a second
because your liver is so robust. It's so
tough. It can take a beating. You can
literally remove 75% of your liver and
grow back the rest in a relatively short
period of time within months. I mean,
it's like it's just it's wild. I
personally would not wait until you have
a symptom with your liver or any other
of these as well because if you wait
until you get a stage four or five
kidney disease and you need diialysis,
chances are it's going to be really,
really hard to recover from that.
Especially when we deal with colon
cancer, you might not notice too much
until it's really kind of metastasized
throughout the body. The best thing to
do again is prevention. And I'm going to
talk about four habits to keep you out
of trouble. Let's shift down here to low
vitamin D. This is not a disease, but
it's a huge root cause to put you at
risk for a lot of other problems,
including cancer, including autoimmune,
including cardiovascular disease. In
fact, low vitamin D is one of the
biggest root causes of high blood
pressure. When you have enough vitamin
D, you can increase this thing called
nitric oxide. And it's really beneficial
to keep your blood pressure in check.
Vitamin D also helps you keep the
insulin working so the insulin doesn't
get burnt out. So if you have low
vitamin D, then this time is shortened.
This time is shorter. And this is why
you should air on the side of a little
bit more vitamin D than less vitamin D
just to make up for this problem right
here called vitamin D resistance. Let's
go into the four habits that I highly
recommend that you hyperfocus in on so
we can actually avoid and maybe even
reverse some of these right here. The
first one involves exercise. Going for
walks after you eat to burn off any
sugar that you ate, which would be very,
very smart. I want to add one thing to
exercise that you maybe never heard
before which I think is going to be the
next amazing thing and it's called
hypoxia training. Now what is hypoxia?
That's low oxygen. You can simulate
exercising at a high altitude like
climbing a mountain like a lot of
athletes do this type of training to
increase their enhancement of their
fitness and repair. When you go to sleep
at night if you had sleep apnnea you're
probably not going to have sleep apnnea.
This little combination of exercise and
hypoxia training could flood different
tissues with more oxygen to get rid of
inflammatory areas and push oxygen into
parts of your body that you have never
really felt in a long time. Number two
is lowering carb with intermittent
fasting. So now you're not going to be
eating all day long. We're going to be
doing like maybe two meals or one meal a
day with low carb. That combination will
take insulin resistance to the point
where all the things that were connected
to it start improving overnight. Number
three, get an additional 30 to 60 more
minutes of sleep. Everything works so
much better by getting sufficient sleep.
But guess what? Number one, that
exercise with the hypoxia training will
give you so much oxygen, it's going to
help you sleep. Reducing the carbs and
doing intermittent fasting will actually
also help you sleep as well. And then
number four, being outside in the sun,
in nature, walking through the woods is
such an important therapy because if you
just contrast that to being inside all
day and not going outside, you will feel
a dramatic difference. Over 50% of the
sun's rays are infrared, which is so
therapeutic to build melatonin and help
you sleep at night. Those are the four
new habits I would highly recommend.
They're the most important for reducing
diseases and symptoms. Now, let's talk
about how to create your health with
intermittent fasting and doing a low
carb diet. For that, you need to watch
this video right now. Check it out.
