They lie to you about menopause. If
you're a female, this is going to be a
super important presentation. If you're
a man married to a female, this is going
to be some very valuable information
because the common story with menopause,
if you ask any mainstream doctor, is
that menopause is caused by a lowered
estrogen. And all the symptoms related
to lower estrogen can be treated with
hormone replacement therapy or estrogen
replacement therapy. Now, superficially,
it kind of makes sense. If you're low on
a hormone, just go ahead and take it and
you fix the problem. Well, the problem
with that is that there's some slight
complications when you take hormone
replacement therapy. The side effects
include breast cancer, endometrial
cancer, clots, increasing your risk for
a stroke, gallstones, fluid retention,
increased triglycerides, which then
could potentially increase risk for
cardiovascular problems. So, there's a
lot of side effects and not just side
effects from that, it's all the other
medications that you are put on.
Typically menopausal females are put on
medications for hot flashes, ompic for
being overweight, SSRI for depression,
NSAIDs for joint pain. These are
medications for bone loss and muscle
loss and high blood pressure. And the
term for that is polyfarm pharmacy. Poly
meaning many, pharmacy meaning drugs.
because of this one big lie related to
menopause.
Having all of these different symptoms
come from different sources when they
really come from one main root cause
that we're going to get into. So I'm
going to take you through step by step
of what happens with menopause. And I
have a really good solution. So it is
absolutely true that roughly around 52
is when you have menopause. Now, some
women are earlier, some women are later,
but the average is age 52 where the
ovaries go in retirement and they stop
releasing eggs. And then from that, you
have a dip in several hormones, not just
estrogen. I mean, it can go from 400
down to 20. So, you get this severe drop
in estrogen. I want to give you some
additional things on this that you
probably haven't heard. It is true that
estrogen drops, testosterone drops, but
also progesterone
sometimes tanks to almost zero, but a
lot of people don't talk about that. We
will be talking about that. But I'm
primarily going to be focusing on this
estrogen. When the estrogen drops, it
signals the thermostat in your brain.
There is a thermostat and it's part of
this hypothalamus which is like the
master gland that controls everything
else. It's like this micro computer. It
has many different little sections that
control huge things in the body. Part of
the area that's in the hypothalamus
that's related to menopause is literally
a thermostat. That's right. And so it's
constantly getting feedback from your
core temperature which should be 98.6.
And if it's going too high or too low,
it makes adjustments. It might heat up,
might create a fever, it might create a
hot flash or night sweat, or it could be
on the other side shivering to try to
generate more heat. So, you have this uh
thermostat going on. And what's really
interesting about the thermostat is
typically in a thermostat you have in
your house, let's say it's set at 72,
there's a certain amount of fluctuation
that can go up or down before it gets
triggered. Picture it like a zone from
this point to this point. After
menopause, when the estrogen drops, that
zone shortens significantly. Which means
that if you just have slight variations,
tiny variations in that temperature,
then it gets triggered and then you have
this cascade effect of a hot flash and
other symptoms. And there's several
things that can trigger it. Temperature,
blood sugar, stress. So, there's a lot
of different triggers that can trip this
uh thermostat. It does several other
things, too. It regulates your set
point. It's that weight that your body
is comfortable at. Like, it just kind of
gravitates to a certain weight and it's
really hard to get below that. And when
you go on a diet or you exercise, you
lose weight and then you hit that set
point and then that's about it. It's
like stuck. It doesn't go below that.
That is controlled by this little
mechanism in the hypothalamus. The other
thing that this controls is appetite.
Okay, so that could relate to how
frequently you're hungry, also what you
crave. It also regulates body weight to
a certain degree. This is why during
menopause, a lot of women start gaining
weight. You think about metabolism, but
that whole thermostat or regulatory
system is in this little part in the
hypothalamus.
Energy. Okay, your ability to generate
energy is also involved with this.
Insulin is involved with this and the
hypothalamus is also very sensitive to
light signals. Interesting because it's
connected to the circadian rhythms. So
when someone goes through menopause, not
only do they get hot flashes sometimes,
but they start gaining weight in the
midsection. They get mood changes,
inflammation, their libido crashes. They
start to lose bone. Okay? They start to
lose muscle. They get atrophy. They get
high blood pressure. The risk for
diabetes goes up. The risk for heart
attack goes up just from having this
change in this part of the hypothalamus.
This doesn't seem normal. So, I found
some interesting things. We already
talked about this narrowing of this zone
of temperature. So now your thermostat
gets triggered more easily, but also
pre-diabetes or type two diabetes or
even something that comes before that
called insulin resistance. They're more
at a double risk of getting a hot flash
if they're going through menopause.
That's an interesting connection.
Another thing that popped out that was
very interesting is I was looking at
different cultures and I wanted to see
if certain cultures have more hot
flashes than others. And this popped
out. 80 to 91%
of AfricanAmerican women that are going
through menopause get hot flashes. Now,
that was really interesting to me
because that stood out as a huge clue.
Uh because if you do a comparison on
other cultures, it's not even close to
that. I mean, up to 91%. So, then I
started looking at why that could be.
And then I found this. People that have
low vitamin D levels, they're vitamin D
deficient, have a much higher risk of
getting hot flashes. The color of
someone's skin does influence their
ability to get vitamin D. So melanin is
a pigment in the skin that acts as a
natural sunblock. And so the darker your
skin, the less UV you're going to get to
make vitamin D. And especially in
America, there's a direct correlation
between skin color and the amount of
vitamin D that someone gets. So now
let's dive in a little deeper and start
connecting the dots with all the things
I just mentioned. Okay, let's take a
look at estrogen first. During
menopause, we get a major decrease in
estrogen. Now, what's the relationship
between estrogen and some of these other
things I've talked about? Number one,
estrogen is very important in protecting
a cell in the body called the beta cell.
That's in the pancreas. The beta cell is
all about helping you regulate blood
sugars and controlling insulin. And
diabetes occurs because of damage to
that beta cell. So that was very, very
interesting. Estrogen helps keep insulin
sensitive. So, in other words, if you're
talking about insulin resistance, which
by the way is a root cause behind so
many different chronic diseases,
diabetes, type two, obesity, a fatty
liver, high triglycerides, etc. And
estrogen has a huge purpose to help keep
insulin sensitive. And when you lose
estrogen, now you're going to lose
insulin sensitivity. What's going to
happen to your blood sugar up and down?
What is that going to do to your weight
if you now have insulin resistance? Now,
that's just going to worsen the whole
thing. Estrogen also has a purpose of
controlling inflammation.
And one of the things that really
creates a narrow spectrum of this
thermostat in your hypothalamus is
inflammation. So, anything that reduces
inflammation will improve menopausal
symptoms. Also, estrogen regulates the
amount of sugar that's produced by the
liver. Let me explain. In a diabetic,
the liver is so insulin resistant that
it doesn't work anymore. So, the insulin
doesn't really go into the liver to work
and blood sugars don't go in there. So,
the signal is we're starving of sugar.
So, then the liver starts making sugar
like crazy. And even in a diabetic 80%
of their blood sugar is actually being
produced by the liver and only a smaller
percent comes from the diet. So that
term is called gluco neoenesis.
The production of new sugar by your
liver and that's influenced greatly by
estrogen. So when the estrogen goes
down, your blood sugars are going to go
down. you're gonna have a problem with
insulin and that right off the bat will
start explaining visceral fat, weight
gain, that set point problem that you
just can't get your weight uh past a
certain level because I've talked about
that in other videos. You have to
correct insulin resistance if you really
want to bring that weight down any
further. Now, let's get into the
interesting information. Vitamin D. I
had no idea until recently that estrogen
has a huge influence over vitamin D. In
the activation of vitamin D in the
blood, you have an inactive version of
vitamin D. It's not really doing
anything. It has to be converted in the
kidney and that conversion needs help
for the estrogen. Okay. Not only that,
the vitamin D receptor in your cells
requires a good amount of estrogen to be
able to work. And even if it does get
activated, it's not going to penetrate
the receptor too much because estrogen
is down. I mean, just think about the
importance of vitamin D for pretty much
everything I already mentioned. There's
even an enzyme that you have in your
adrenals and in your fat that helps you
make estrogen from testosterone because
you no longer can get the benefit of the
ovary. Now you're dependent on your
estrogen from adrenal and your fat cells
and also the enzyme that converts it.
But not unless you have enough vitamin
D. Wow, that's interesting. So basically
vitamin D and estrogen are
bidirectional. They both influence each
other. If you don't have enough
estrogen, then you're not going to have
enough vitamin D. If you don't have
enough vitamin D, you're not going to be
able to produce as much estrogen, which
is a double-edged sword. So you need
both of these things. Also, when you're
vitamin D deficient, you're going to
have less temperature control. There's a
hormone around your thyroid called the
parathyroid hormone. And that hormone
kind of acts as a a plan B for vitamin
D. It's like a backup to vitamin D. So
if you don't have enough vitamin D, that
goes up. And what it's going to do, it's
going to start to mobilize calcium from
your bone. This is why the bone loss
after menopause. When I was in practice,
I would have women coming in and they go
through menopause and all of a sudden
they have osteopenia and osteoporosis
like within weeks.
That's because of this high parathyroid
hormone. This can be brought down if you
get enough vitamin D. The problem is
most doctors are operating off of this
outdated information that we only need
600 to 800 IUs of vitamin D3, which is
completely false because if you take a
look at all the other important uh
things that vitamin D does, immune
system, helping with the estrogen,
helping with your muscles, etc., etc.,
for that other system, you need between
6,000
to 8,000 to even 10,000 IUs every single
day just to maintain that system. And
I'm not even talking about creating a
therapeutic effect by using more for
inflammatory conditions like autoimmune.
I'm just talking about maintaining
things. So, if you're operating off of
this outdated information that you only
need a tiny amount and uh it's okay to
have 20 nanogs per milliliter of vitamin
D in your blood, that's normal. Then you
are going to be in a heap of trouble
because you're not going to have enough
vitamin D for all of this to work.
Compounded by the fact that estrogen is
so low, you're barely getting any
vitamin D. And then of course, the
parathyroid hormones going to spike up
and start robbing all this calcium out.
So, do you see the problem now? You
can't go into this having a fixed idea.
You have to be very open to looking at
all the different viewpoints and also to
have a different viewpoint of lifestyle
changes because insulin sensitivity or
insulin resistance has everything to do
with your diet. And unfortunately,
that's something that it's not going to
be brought up when you visit your
doctor. And the same thing with vitamin
D. They're not going to really talk
about that. they're going to be more
focused on treating all of your
symptoms. So, what can we do? What is
the plan? The most important thing for
menopausal symptoms is to fix insulin
resistance. Now, are you going to start
increasing estrogen, start taking that?
The problem with that is there's too
many side effects. Why can't we just
improve insulin resistance and see if
that doesn't help a lot of the symptoms
that you have related to this? Because
it is normal to have a dip in estrogen.
We're just trying to bring it up enough
where you don't have any more problems.
So, fixing insulin resistance is going
to be super important. How do you do
that? I'm going to put the link down
below. You're going to have to cut down
your carbs. You're going have to do
intermittent fasting. There's a couple
other things to do as well uh
nutrition-wise, but this is doable. You
can reverse insulin resistance in a very
short period of time just with diet.
Number two, vitamin D3. I wouldn't just
take 10,000 IUs. I would highly
recommend you you do 20,000 IUs every
single day. Now, you say, "Oh my gosh,
that's a lot." Well, that's literally 40
minutes in the sun. But you're going to
need to bypass all these other barriers
that are going on to get enough vitamin
D to then help estrogen work better. And
also vitamin D can greatly help your
insulin problem as well. I would also
recommend taking magnesium with that and
vitamin K2. Magnesium is another thing
that can help reduce cortisol. It'll
help you sleep. It can actually help a
lot of things related to menopause that
I didn't actually cover. But vitamin D
is going to be the most important. But
definitely take magnesium with it. The
next thing is this. As you're fixing a
root cause problem, we need to give you
some relief right away, but some people
don't want to take the drugs because
they have side effects. Is there some
type of drug mimicker that you could
take that doesn't have the amount of
side effects? And yes, there is. NK3R
agonist is a certain drug that they use
for certain menopausal symptoms. And if
you looked up the natural version of
that, there's several things that may
help you or things that you might want
to try. Uh soy isoflavones. Now,
typically I don't recommend soy, but in
these situations, a little bit of uh
this could help you. Rveratrol is
another option. Black coohos is a very
popular antidote to hot flashes and
other menopausal symptoms. Red clover is
another one. Number four is light and
dark. Remember I told you the specific
part of the hypothalamus is very
sensitive to light and the circadian
waves. You can improve your menopausal
symptoms by aligning yourself with light
and dark cycles. So, in the morning, if
you can go outside when the sun is
rising and for 20 minutes get that sun,
it'd be awesome. If you can't do that,
get one of the full spectrum lights that
they have, more of a therapeutic light,
and you put that up for a half an hour
in the morning next to your computer so
you can get that light. Um, and that way
you can start to influence this
circadian effect inside your brain. And
then at night when it starts to get dark
if you're watching TV like one or two
hours before bed you get the little blue
blockers and that way we can simulate
more the darkness and of course turn the
lights down around you. Uh that'd be
very very important to help reset that
hypothalamus. Some people uh get a lot
of benefit with some of the bigger
symptoms with menopause by progesterone
cream. So that's another thing to look
at. estrogen goes down, but progesterone
really tanks a lot more than estrogen.
So, that ratio is going to be important.
Some women that have problems sleeping
at night might need to take melatonin.
Normally, I don't recommend it, but for
if you've tried all these other things
and it hasn't worked, getting to bed at
the right time and being able to sleep
is like the most important thing. And if
you compare melatonin with a drug, this
has virtually like almost zero side
effects. and we're just taking three
milligrams, maybe that might uh actually
help you. Out of all the biomarkers that
seem to go really, really, really high
after menopause, uh luteinizing hormone,
LH, is the one that really sometimes can
go up at like a thousand%.
That can make uh menopause miserable for
you, especially high flashes. So, there
is something to lower that melatonin.
Interesting. You can also get melatonin
from just being out in the sun because
when you're out in the sun, over 50% of
the rays are infrared. Infrared triggers
melatonin to be made inside your cells.
So, that's another uh thing to help you.
And number seven, if you've tried
everything and just nothing's working,
you might want to get your testosterone
tested by a competent doctor that really
knows about doing the testosterone
pellets. And the only reason I'm
bringing it up is because the amount of
plastics in the environment are so high.
Both men and women, their testosterone
is like crashing to such low numbers.
But don't be deceived with their normal
range of testosterone because they're
taking an average of the population and
that's your normal. So you're comparing
your hormones with everyone else's
hormones, which is not a good
comparison. They're not comparing your
hormones with someone 20, 30 years ago.
They don't do that, which is
interesting. But testosterone pellets by
a competent physician could be
beneficial for some women. The thing you
need to know is that testosterone is
like a mother hormone that turns into
estrogen. So, this could be one way to
bring this up just enough to satisfy the
insulin sensitivity issue to help you
absorb and uh more vitamin D at the
receptor level to convert more inactive
vitamin D to the active vitamin D and to
lessen a lot of the symptoms that occur
because of the inflammation that's
created. I think the most important
thing right now is to really learn about
how to fix this insulin resistance
problem. And for that, I put this video
right here. Check it out.
