The number one food to remove fat from
your liver. In the past, a fatty liver
was mostly caused by alcohol. But
nowadays, it's caused by something
different. We're talking about a problem
that can extend beyond the liver. Issues
would be like type 2 diabetes, obesity,
high blood pressure. And this leads me
to the biggest confusion of this
disorder. The medical profession is very
careful not to give you the cause effect
relationship. Instead, they talk about
the risk factors. They list all these
things like obesity and diabetes and
high blood pressure. And if you have
these, you're at risk for getting this
fatty liver issue. This is why they're
even changing the name from non
alcoholic fatty liver disease to
something called MASH, metabolic
dysfunction associated Seattle
hepatitis. Now, what does that mean?
That's basically a fatty liver with
inflammation. They really kind of keep
things disconnected. I mean, it's
obvious to me what's causing it, but for
the average person, it's all kind of
general, kind of confusing. So
basically, they're going to focus in on
the smoke detector without really
looking at the fire behind it. And that
way, we can treat each individual risk
factor with a different medication. Now,
I want to show you a clip of another way
that they hide the real cause. Check
this out. Most of the population has had
excess nutrition day after day after
day. And that's what ends up causing
damage to the liver and many other
organs. I mean, that just sounds funny
as a as a cause for a fatty liver.
You're chronically eating too much
nutrition. I mean, if I just told you
right now, you know, you know, you're
suffering from chronic over nutrition,
you might kind of ask me, "What the heck
are you talking about?" Over nutrition
is too much sugar, too much starch or
refined carbohydrates, or too many seed
oils. They're not nutritious because
they don't have any nutrients. You
cannot live on those foods forever
without getting sick. I'm talking about
the breads, pasta, cereal, crackers,
biscuits, waffles, pancakes, especially
the industrial sugars like the high
fructose corn syrup really hammers the
liver hardcore. Anytime you eat glucose,
all of your cells can metabolize it, but
not fructose. If we look up this disease
online, it'll tell you that rarely are
you going to really experience any
symptom other than fatigue. Sometimes
right upper quadrant discomfort, which
by the way, I had for over a decade.
Cognitive problems. You're going to
notice like your skin is a bit yellow,
your feet getting hot or itchy. You're
definitely going to notice a gut. You
have just too much fat in your liver
that's spilling off into and around your
organs. If you read a little bit lower
on the page when it talks about the
fatty liver, there's something really
interesting in the section of diet,
it'll talk about what potentially causes
a fatty liver. And they mention red
meat, organ meats, liver, and eggs
causing a fatty liver. If you look up
those studies, they are all
observational studies. So, in other
words, they give you a food
questionnaire and they say, "Remember
what you ate in the last year." And they
don't pay attention to these other
variables. Like if you're eating red
meat or eggs, did you eat French fries
with that? Are you eating sugar with
that? Are you smoking? Are you drinking
alcohol with that? They're not really
looking at these other factors. So,
these observational studies are
worthless and you don't want to use
those. It's the worst type of science.
And when you want to manipulate things
and have the media uh put out certain
things, you're going to use these
observational studies. I mean, if red
meat, liver, and eggs cause this fatty
liver epidemic, then why did this
explosion, this epidemic of a fatty
liver occur after we reduced saturated
fat? Could it possibly be because we
dramatically increased our refined
carbohydrates? There is data to show
that if you go on a low carb ketogenic
diet, you can reduce 50% of the fat off
your liver within a few weeks. The
question is, what should you eat? The
last one is going to be the most
powerful. Number one, grass-fed red
meat. It's not necessarily just beef. It
could be lamb as well. What's so special
about that? It helps to restore your
insulin problems and your blood sugar.
It has high quality protein. It has
zinc. It has copper, co-enzyme Q10. All
of these nutrients are super healing for
the liver. Number two, eggs. Because out
of all the nutrients that help protect
you against the fatty liver, that
nutrient is choline. And guess what? Egg
yolks are very high in choline. Egg
yolks are zero carbohydrate. Anything
that is zero carb is going to help
reverse a fatty liver. Number three,
cruciferous vegetables, especially if
it's fermented in the form of
sauerkraut. That will help support the
liver going through its detoxification.
The fermentation part of the cabbage
really will help in removing the fat
from the liver. The other cruciferous
vegetable that I consume a lot of is
arugula. It's slightly bitter. I put my
extra-virgin olive oil on there and I
also sprinkle some nutritional yeast on
there. Makes a great salad. Plus, when
your microbiome eats some of this fiber,
it gives you all sorts of additional
cool things that will help your blood
sugar as well. Next food on the list is
wild caught salmon or other wild caught
fatty fish that have not only a lot of
nutrition and protein, but they're very
high in omega-3 fatty acids. And what
these omega-3 fatty acids do to the
liver is help reduce inflammation.
Omega-3 fatty acid is really beneficial
to help the liver in many different
ways. And cod liver and cod liver oil.
You talk about taking your omega-3s to
the next level. You just get a lot more.
Next one is broccoli sprouts. What's so
special about broccoli sprouts? Well,
you're dealing with a cruciferous
vegetable which has sulfurophane which
does a lot. It's anti-cancer, but it's
very good to detoxify the liver and
decrease A1C which will help your blood
sugar. I would take the broccoli sprouts
and put them on your arugula salad.
Let's get to the best food that you can
eat for your liver. And this is going to
be very surprising because it's the
exact thing that they tell you not to
eat for a fatty liver. Grass-fed liver.
Beef liver or lamb liver has the most
choline. We get this low carb, high
choline, high nutrientdense with most of
the trace minerals like zinc, selenium.
These are all really important in
reducing fat and inflammation off the
liver. Now, of course, if we cook that
liver with the onions, garlic, with our
arugula salad, with broccoli sprouts,
maybe with a little sauerkraut, with egg
on top of that, now you have the best
meal for your liver. Thanks so much for
watching.
