Hi guys. I had some more questions about salad dressing. In this video, we're going
to discuss salad dressings in general. Just kind of give you some ideas of what
I like, what I don't like. Combining ingredients with taste. Ideally you would
want a salad dressing with oil and vinegar, right? So yeah, balsamic vinegar.
You have apple cider vinegar right here. You have extra-virgin olive oil right
here. There's even the avocado oil which a lot of people are starting to
use now. But I just want to go through some types of dressing and the problems that
you're going to run into. Now Bragg's is a really good brand. The
challenge is that even though the ingredients are good, it's too watered
down for me. What I like, when I put some dressing on a salad,
I want more oil. So, it's mainly like water so I really don't like this. Here's
another one. Hawaiian, Bragg's Hawaiian. It's just like
a lot of water, there's hardly any oil in here at all. So I don't really like those.
And the purpose of the oil on the dressing is to also extract some of the
nutrients, the phytonutrients, especially the carotenoids. Those are like the
Vitamin A family of phytonutrients. So here's one right here.
This one right here and the problem is the first ingredient is soybean oil. So
it's going to be GMO. Here's one here. It's a raspberry sugar-free dressing. The
first thing is when you consume this, it's very watery it doesn't really taste
that great. There's no soy in here but there's sucralose and I don't like that
type of sugar. Okay, so here's one right here. This is a really good one right
here. It's called Buttermilk Ranch dressing and this one has hormone-free
buttermilk, non-GMO sunflower oil. It has sea salt, onion, garlic, water, vinegar, eggs.
I mean it's really healthy. It just doesn't have any taste. So good stuff, not
good taste. Now this one right here, cilantro lime. Now this one has sunflower
oil, organic apple cider vinegar. The only thing it has,
it has all the good stuff but it just has a little agave nectar. Now would I
consume this? Well, I want to look at the sugars. Well it has less than one gram of
sugar, so they were probably using a very small amount of agave and it's organic
so I think I would consume this because it's very, very small. If it's less than
one gram, it's very tiny. So this would be an okay dressing, but if you start seeing
that the sugar is very high, where the first ingredient is sugar, stay away
from it. Alright now, we have the Stone well Kitchen cilantro lime okay dressing.
Now there's, if you really have to start reading these, because I bought this one.
This is an olive oil in balsamic vinaigrette and I like the ingredients
because it's basically just pure olive oil, balsamic vinegar, spices and garlic.
That's it. This is awesome and I put in a little bit
of peanut butter, I shake it up and it becomes thicker. So this is one I like
but then I bought another one, assuming it was olive oil and the first oil was
canola. So again, canola. If it's not, doesn't say
non-GMO, organic, it is GMO. So I don't want to consume this. You really want to
balance out your oils. You want to have omegas. If you have too much Omega-6, that
would be like safflower oil, sunflower oil, any of the oils that are like, even
corn, soy, which we don't want to recommend those. You want to balance out
the Omega-6 with the Omega-3. Now of course, you're not going to put fish oil
in your salad dressing but you want to consume more fish or consume fish oil or
chia seed oil or flax oil. Those are Omega-3 fatty acids. I like the fish oils
the best. But chia, hemp, flax, is all Omega-3, but it has a little bit of
Omega-6. And then, the other thing you want to avoid, is you definitely want to
avoid all soy oil. Okay, it's contaminated with you know, glyphosate, which is the
herbicide. Soy, you want to avoid corn oils. It's in the vegetable oils. Stay
away from that, cottonseed oil and canola. Those are GMO, unless it's organic.
Alright? Well thanks for watching. I put a couple
links down below of some amazing recipes on how to make your own dressing. Alright,
talk to you later.
Hey, if you haven't already subscribed, press this little button down
below. Okay? Thanks.
