Today we're going to talk about the
number one best meal for type 2
diabetes, heart and kidney disease in
addition to a lot of other
metabolic diseases. But the most
important thing to understand about this
topic is this one word right here
metabolic because a lot of people
have that wrong. Okay. When someone
talks about metabolic disease, sometimes
people will think, oh, metabolism
disease, oh, the person's not able to
lose weight easily. That's only a very
tiny part of this problem. Metabolic
disease is not just about not being able
to lose weight. When they use the term
metabolic, they're talking about a huge
problem at the cell level
where the cells can no longer get
energy. So, it's energy failure at the
cell level in an abundance of fuel. So,
it would be like this. Let's say, for
example, you're in your house and you're
hungry and you have all these food
trucks outside your house, but someone
has a padlock on the door. You can't get
access to it.
That's exactly what metabolic disease
is. And that's what's happening in your
brain cells with Alzheimer's. You have
all this sugar available and all this
fuel, but you can't get access to it. So
then the the nerve cells or the brain
cells start dying out of starvation.
Let's take diabetes for example. You
have all this high blood sugar. But look
at a diabetic. They're going blind.
kidney disease, heart disease, type
three diabetes, which is Alzheimer's,
which is a type of dementia. And then of
course your feet, you're losing the
nerve uh function in your feet. So you
start getting gang green and they have
to cut off the toes and it starts
affecting the fingertips. That's all
related to your cells literally starving
of fuel despite a massive amount of fuel
that's available to them. And what's
really wild is type 2 diabetes,
cardiovascular disease, and chronic
kidney disease represents 25%
of our population. So that means one out
of every four people are diagnosed with
one of these. That's crazy. But then if
we get into another research paper,
which I'll put a link down below from
Harvard, 93% of US adults had at least
one abnormal risk factor. High blood
glucose, high blood pressure, high blood
lipids,
overweight, visceral fat around the gut,
inflammation based on a blood test, a
fatty liver, or sleep apnea. That means
only 7%
of the population
has an optimum numbers and they don't
have any of these. That's crazy stats.
So at the root of the problem is the
mitochondria. That's the energy factory
of the cell. It is losing function and
that's really at the heart or the root
at metabolic disease. But it's pretty
wild to me that the recommendations for
certain foods for these conditions are
are just ignored. They're not
acknowledged as something super
significant. Instead, each one of these
is treated with a different drug to
manage the symptoms. Same thing with all
these.
So, today we're going to actually talk
about exactly what meal would be the
best meal to reverse this. There's
obviously states of advanced liver
disease, advanced dementia that you
can't do anything about, but you never
know until you try. So, like I said
before, metabolic disease is where the
cell cannot get energy from sugar or
fat. It doesn't go in there because the
hormone that's in control of this that
allows it to go into the cell is not
working that well anymore. There's
resistance to that and they call that
insulin resistance. And so if there's
resistance to insulin, the fuel is going
to be very low and you're going to have
a lot of symptoms like I just talked
about. But now let's get into how that's
created. How do you develop the
situation in the first place? The
foundation that you need to understand
first of all is what is normal blood
sugars? Well, between 70 and 90, let's
just say an average of 80, okay,
milligrams per deciliter. That's what
normal is. But but what does that mean?
Well, this is the number that represents
how much sugar you have in your blood.
And this will shock you because normal
blood sugars equal
roughly one little tiny teaspoon of
sugar. So in other words,
your circulation in your entire body can
only tolerate
one tiny freaking teaspoon of sugar. And
then the next thing is how much sugar do
people actually consume per day? On
average, 31 teaspoons every single day.
Okay, that's a lot, right? And people
know that too much sugar is bad. But
that's not even half the story. There's
something else. Carbohydrates, starch in
most of the foods that most people eat.
We're not talking about potato starch.
We're talking about refined starches.
That's what industrial starch is.
modified food starch, modified corn
starch, maltodextrin.
It's not actually a sugar, but it
behaves worse than a sugar because it
actually creates a massive spike in
blood sugar more than actually you
eating sugar. And what's really wild,
it's not even sweet. It's like bland.
When you taste it, there's nothing. So
why do they put it in there if it's not
sweet? Well, they use it as a filler.
Sometimes they use it for texture. If we
take a look at the average amount of
starches that's consumed by an average
American, comes out to 56 teaspoons a
day.
Wow. Let's add these up. We get 87
teaspoons of sugar. This really is sugar
because it's hidden sugar. Starch is a
string of glucose molecules together,
but it's so highly refined. It'll break
down and into glucose really fast soon
as you eat it, and it spikes
the sugar. I mean, think about adding
all this refined fuel into this machine.
Completely different than how nature has
designed things to come with like fiber
and phytonutrients, which are protective
and all the antioxidants. But no, we
just getting straight jet fuel or even
like straight diesel. It's going right
in this machine and it's just creating a
massive destruction. Now, this 87
teaspoons is based on
an average of 2,000 calories per day.
But I would venture to say that the
average American consumes way more than
2,000 calories per day. If you take a
look just at how much weight they have,
I would imagine it's probably 25 to 28
to maybe 3,000 or more calories per day.
That's just my wild guess. So, let's
just say it was 3,000 calories a day,
then that brings this number up to 131
teaspoons of sugar every single day.
What's really happening is because this
excess sugar is so dangerous to the
inside of your arteries, your body is
going to try to protect yourself and
it's going to create this sucking out of
all the sugar out of the arteries with a
vacuum. That vacuum is insulin. So
insulin is sucking the sugar out as soon
as you eat it and it's going to put it
in storage, okay, as belly fat, as liver
fat, as high triglycerides. But in that
process, you really start destroying the
mitochondria. So that's kind of a
compensation protective survival
mechanism. And you can get away with
that for a period of time. In fact, in
the beginning of that, you can check
someone's blood sugar after they ate a
ton of sugar and it comes out normal
because in the background, your pancreas
is working like crazy to jack up insulin
and suck the sugar out. And but that's
never tested. We don't ever test fasting
insulin. We're looking at the blood
sugars and they seem to be normal a lot
at least for the first 15 to 20 years
until the pancreas starts becoming
completely exhausted where it can't
produce the insulin anymore to a certain
degree. Now you start seeing
pre-diabetes where now we start getting
a higher blood sugar maybe
120 124 and then going into 125
diabetes. After 15 to 20 years of doing
this, then they diagnosed you with type
2 diabetes. If they would have done a
fasting insulin test, they would have
picked this up long ago. What would be
the best meal to reverse chronic
disease? I'm talking about type two
diabetes, heart disease, kidney disease,
and a lot of other issues. Well,
obviously, you need to cut down the
refined carbohydrates. That's the most
important thing. And also what would be
helpful is to not eat so frequently like
maybe have two meals or even one meal a
day. But also the frequency of eating
and all these little snacks will get you
into trouble. The really cool thing is
when you do what I'm going to show you,
you are going to fix the mitochondria
and you're going to be able to use the
mitochondria and allow your body to
finally tap into the fat reserves. And
the way that you're going to know it's
working, this is super important more
than weight loss. Can you go from one
meal to the next without being so darn
hungry? Can you go for a longer period
of time without starving? If you cannot,
then we have more work to do. If you
can, then you know your body is actually
eating your own fat when you're not
eating. That is what you need to look
out for. And to create this metabolic
shift back into the mitochondria,
what you have to do is lower the carb
and not eat so frequently. But now the
question is, what do you eat? Well, I'm
going to show you the perfect meal right
here. Let's start with the salad. Okay,
so one of the best leafy greens, and I'm
just giving you an example of one of the
best. There's other there's a lot of
other foods and varieties, but I'm just
picking out certain things for a reason
which I'll explain. Arugula is a type of
green. It's a little bit bitter. Not
only is it a type of cruciferous, which
will help your liver, and not only is a
leafy green that will give you magnesium
and chlorophyll and vitamin C and folic
acid, but it's very high in nitrate. So,
it's going to give you um one of the
highest amounts of nitric oxide. Now,
wait a second. What is nitric oxide?
Nitric oxide is usually deficient when
you have high blood pressure when you
have heart disease
and nitric oxide creates more
vasoddilation. It creates more opening
and relaxation of the arteries and so
it's really important in blood flow and
what you need to know is when you have
insulin problems this shuts down. So now
we have high blood pressure. How do we
correct this? What we have to do is we
have to fix the insulin problem, but we
also want to eat foods that can really
spike this nitric oxide. It's going to
help your blood pressure. It's going to
help the heart. It's definitely going to
help the inside of the arteries because
it's a salad and it has a lot of things
in there. So, it's also going to help
the mitochondrial efficiency because
we're trying to eat for your energy
factory. It's also loaded with
magnesium. Magnesium is not just about
your muscles relaxing. It's not just
about sleeping or reducing stress. It's
about creating energy,
part of the biochemical pathway of
turning fuel into energy in your energy
factory. So, we need certain things,
especially the magnesium and also
potassium. Okay? And that's going to
come from arugula.
Now, on this little salad base,
you can use bissolic vinegarette or
better yet, apple cider vinegar. Okay?
Apple cider vinegar has been shown in
studies to improve your blood sugar
because that's what we're trying to do.
We're trying to also make insulin more
sensitive. Then on the salad, you want
to put extra virgin olive oil, the real
thing, which is loaded with polyphenols,
which is plant-based chemicals that are
going to go into the arteries and help
support them and also help reduce blood
pressure. Okay, if you have that
problem, uh you can also add some
pumpkin seeds, which are a really good
source of magnesium and other things. I
would get the roasted ones, easier to
digest, not a lot, just a little bit on
this salad. The other thing that I had
on my salad is nutritional yeast. Okay,
I get it unfortified because you you
don't want to have them add the
synthetic vitamins, but nutritional
yeast is one of the best sources of B
vitamins. This energy factory needs B1
to work, B2 and B3 to help extract
energy from the food and actually make
energy. If you don't have nutritional
yeast, you can also get your B1 and
other B vitamins from sunflower seeds.
So, roasted, you can use that. So,
either or or both. And then, let's stick
an avocado on there for the potassium.
You get a lot of potassium. We need like
4700 milligrams of potassium. That's a
lot. uh very few people get enough
potassium. Potassium is a physiological
uh tranquilizer. It's going to calm you
down. It's going to bring the pulse rate
down. It helps the blood pressure. It
helps protect the kidney. It helps in
the sodium potassium pump to allow your
nerve cells to fire and your muscles to
work. So, we can't forget about
potassium. In addition to the balance of
sodium potassium, you can tolerate more
sodium with more potassium. So when
people are told to get off sodium for
their blood pressure, I'd say really
shouldn't we just increase the potassium
because we need both of them for
everything to work. Now let's talk about
the protein and the fat. Now there is
some fat right here from the oils and
the avocado, but we're talking about the
healthy saturated fat. Now I'm going to
recommend a hamburger. Now, you're
probably going to go, "Wait a second, a
hamburger. I'm not talking about the
bun. I'm not talking about a hamburger
that you would get at the fast food
restaurant. I'm talking about buying
some high quality meat, grass-fed,
grass-finished." Why do I say hamburger
and not a steak? You could do a steak,
but sometimes these steaks are pretty
lean, and we want a little more fat and
high quality protein. If it's grass-fed,
grass-finish, that's just a little bit
better. I consume a lot of hamburger.
Okay. Now, I also do ground lamb as
well, and I do fish as well, but there's
something about red meat that helps this
metabolic process a little bit better
than fish. Even though you can do fish,
you can do eggs, that will work, but
there's some additional things and red
meat. And it's interesting because what
do they tell you to avoid
to get healthy? Avoid red meat. So
what's unique about this red meat is
it's higher ends these other things
which I'm not going to get into the
woods with but carnosine carnitine
creatine. Okay so basically what these
are are things to help transport
fat into the mitochondria. They're
things to help protect you against the
damage from carbohydrates.
And there's several other things that
just help make the mitochondria way more
efficient. And you're going to have more
of these in red meat than you will in
fish. Also, it has a really good
bioavailable source of heem iron, which
is needed. Also, zinc and other trace
minerals, selenium as well, super
important. It has virtually all of the B
vitamins including B12 which you need
and also just the type of protein
compared to other uh protein sources.
It's just super high quality
bioavailable. I personally feel the best
when I consume red meat than any other
protein, even fish. Even though I
consume fish on a regular basis, I feel
a little better with the hamburger. This
red meat right here is probably the
number one thing to help heal the body
because in this mitochondria, if you
don't get enough high quality protein,
it can't work. So, we need these amino
acids from something high quality to
help repair all the damage to help
maintain the protein in our muscles,
which we have a lot of. So, if you look
at protein, carbs, and fats, protein is
the most important thing. And this is
why we want to make sure it's high
quality. Let's talk about a dessert.
There's a certain type of microbe. It's
called Lutdery that is usually missing
in your gut, especially if you've ever
had an antibiotic, especially if you've
never been breastfed because it comes
from your mother. It controls a lot of
other microbes and it keeps the wrong
bacteria out of the small intestine. So,
it kind of balances that out. It helps
with insulin sensitivity.
It helps reduce the pathogens.
It also helps increase one of the most
powerful hormones called oxytocin,
which also, by the way, helps increase
your social behavior. You're going to
become more social when you consume it.
It's pretty wild. I've done a whole
video on it. It also helps build muscle
mass and it's a microbe in your gut. So,
it's a very important one. And what you
could do is you can grow it into higher
amounts with a yogurt maker and using
half and half. I also add some
sugar-free dark chocolate. Dark
chocolate is loaded with polyphenols
that greatly help the inside of the
arteries. It increases nitric oxide.
It's loaded with magnesium. Now, some
people are going to say, "Well, you
don't want to consume this because it's
high in oxalates." Well, one of the
antidotes to calcium oxalate is
increasing your magnesium because
magnesium will bind more than calcium to
the oxalate and prevent the formation of
that stone. So, uh, magnesium is kind of
the saving the day on that. If you
wanted to add a little more cinnamon,
you can actually help your blood sugar a
little bit more. Low carb intermittent
fasting, a lot of sun, you get infrared
from the sun. Over 50% of the sun is
infrared. It actually penetrates 2 in
into your skull and your body even
through your clothes. And it supports
the mitochondria when you increase
infrared. Okay, you can get that from
the sun. But you also get vitamin D
which is also super important in
reestablishing
uh normal mitochondria. After you eat,
postmeal walk, go for a walk for 20
minutes and you can burn off the sugar.
Now, you didn't eat any sugar in this
meal, right? But if you have metabolic
disease, your liver has such strong
insulin resistance that you're going to
be making more sugar out of other things
for a while. That's just what happens
with diabetes. This is why people wake
up in the morning with something called
the dawn phenomena where they have
higher blood sugar coming from the
liver. Well, you can just walk that off.
And of course, in addition to that,
exercise, highintensity interval
training, resistance training can also
help this as well. Do not buy any more
junk food, call them alter processed
foods. Just don't buy it because you
only have to say no once at the store.
If you bring it home every night when it
gets laid out when you're watching TV,
you have to say no again and again and
again because it's available. So that's
the best way to kind of add another
barrier so it makes it more difficult
because I mean you could literally drive
to the store, right? But chances are you
might go, "Uh, I'd rather not. I'm just
going to I'll eat something else instead
of ultrarocessed food calories because
this is the source of metabolic
disease." Now, one last point that I
brushed off pretty quickly. Vitamin B1
is at the entry
of this mitochondria. In other words,
when you consume a lot of refined
carbohydrates,
your requirement for B1 goes way, way up
and most people run out of it. And then
now you can't use that fuel. So, it's a
spark plug. And there's some fascinating
information on on what actually B1 does
that I created this video and I talk
about and you should watch it. I'll put
it up right now. Check it out.
