You want to know the real reason why
people get depressed during the winter?
It's actually not vitamin D. Vitamin D
is involved a little bit, but not as
much as you might think. And I've done a
lot of videos on vitamin D, especially
for depression. And some people take
vitamin D during the winter, and don't
see any change. Well, this video is for
that person. Vitamin D does play a role,
but it's not as much as you might think.
When we talk about sadness during the
winter time, we're talking about the
biggest difference between summer and
winter, and that is, of course, we have
more sun. But a lot of people don't
realize that sun doesn't just give us
vitamin D. It's involved in over 2,000
different genes. Genes that trigger
serotonin, which actually makes you
happy. Genes involved with melatonin,
which is another hormone. Genetics that
involve the thyroid, even affecting your
microbiome. and many many other
additional effects. When you look at
depression, let's just define
depression. People automatically think
it's a mental problem. But in reality,
in the wintertime, a lot of times it's
not sadness. It's the inability to feel
pleasure or a higher state of emotion,
the inability to feel happiness from a
reward. And so that gives us a very
interesting dynamic because there's so
many things that could be done to
actually elevate the person's emotional
state that doesn't involve taking a
medication like an SSRI. So at the very
root of this issue, we have a problem
with our internal clock. You have a main
clock in your brain that activates this
circadian rhythm and that clock is
controlled by a lot of things, but
mainly it's light. And so in the winter
time, obviously it gets darker, right? I
mean, in the summertime where I live,
it's light until 9:00 at night. In the
winter right now, it gets dark like at
4:30 or 5:00. And so, just the fact that
it's darker pushes us inside. It exposes
us to more artificial light. And this
has a huge effect on our hormones, our
timing of sleep. We want to go to bed
earlier, but of course, we might stay up
later. A lot of people don't go to sleep
early, so they just kind of push through
it. And of course we have the
temperature. It's colder. So that also
affects our physiology as well. There's
a condition called seasonal effective
disorder which is completely affected by
this misaligned circadian wave. In this
video, we're not going to be covering
too much on that, but one of the most
important tools to solve this is morning
light. Now, of course, if it's cold out,
you're not going to be going outside and
getting this light. That early morning
light is so powerful to set up the
entire circadian wave through the entire
day as well as that night. But of
course, when it's freezing outside, we
stay inside. So, winter doesn't just
affect your mood, it desynchronizes
your biology in a big way. And so, I
want you to step back and look at this,
not just from vitamin D, but from a
whole system that's involved in this.
Let's first talk about this little piece
of the puzzle, melatonin. Maybe you've
heard about melatonin affecting your
sleep because when melatonin goes up, it
helps you go to sleep at night. What
stimulates melatonin is darkness.
Obviously, in the winter, you're getting
more darkness which is going to give you
more melatonin
in your pineal gland in your brain. But
there's another melatonin that's in a
different system that's throughout the
cells. And that melatonin does a
completely different thing. It's in your
mitochondria. It's a very powerful
antioxidant. And the way that you mostly
get that is through infrared from the
sun. We have this imbalance where our
brain might have too much melatonin
making us tired, but the rest of our
body might have too little melatonin. So
it throws off the whole balance of
melatonin, but these signals are during
the day when you don't want them just
with having an imbalance of melatonin.
And then of course we get to vitamin D,
which is a piece of the puzzle. Vitamin
D is not a vitamin. It's a hormone
that's involved in literally over 2,000
of your genes. It's a hormone that
activates serotonin, the hormone that is
involved in your mood. And people take
anti-depressants to fix this. But of
course, they just found out that there's
no proof of that and it actually makes
things worse. That's a whole other
video. But the point is vitamin D is
necessary to actually make sure you have
enough serotonin and also to recycle
serotonin correctly. And you also need
vitamin D for another really important
thing called dopamine, especially in the
receptors for dopamine to make sure it's
sensitive enough so it works. When you
don't have enough dopamine or you have a
problem with this sensitivity issue,
you're going to feel emotionally flat.
You're not going to be able to feel
higher levels of emotion and that's
where you get into the sadness or even
kind of feeling apathetic. So, vitamin D
helps dopamine work better within its
receptors. You'll have more motivation
to do things. You'll have more ability
to experience pleasure and enough
vitamin D helps keep brain inflammation
down because there's a huge connection
between brain inflammation and your
mood. But vitamin D also protects you
against mitochondrial damage. So many
people that feel sad or depressed just
are lacking energy. Now, let's get into
artificial light. you have the excess
blue light on your cell phone or on your
computer late at night or even your TV.
Boy, does that mess things up and gives
your brain and your circadian waves a
massive confusion. So again, we keep
coming back to this light issue, right?
Long ago, ancient man didn't have this
artificial light. When this entire
system starts breaking down because
we're lacking sun, we don't get enough
serotonin. Obviously, we don't get
enough vitamin D. Our melatonin goes
down. you're going to start feeling kind
of like
I don't feel like doing much. You lose
your motivation. You're kind of tired
and you start craving the wrong things
as well, especially the refined
carbohydrates and sugar, which then sets
you up on a blood sugar roller coaster
because of the dependency of your brain
on glucose and the inability to get it
because you develop insulin resistance.
And then when you starve the brain of
energy and you don't convert it to
ketones, it can become very tired and
very depressed. The next thing I want to
share with you is the relationship
between sun and your thyroid. During the
winter months, your thyroid can suffer
greatly. And it's not just the lack of
sun, it's cold. If you ever notice
people that get sick when the seasons
change, and I think it's usually in the
fall, all of a sudden they get sick.
That's because the thyroid can't adapt
to that cold fast enough. And it puts a
huge stress on the immune system. And
think about if the thyroid is not
working, your energy goes down, your
mood goes down. A lot of people with
thyroid problems have a lowered mood,
depression or anxiety. They also get
cold intolerance. They get a lot of
brain fog. They gain more weight. Now,
another interesting thing about this is
the microbiome is also affected by the
temperature outside and the sun. Also,
the shift in diet during the winter
time. So many people, especially during
the holidays, go off their plan, right?
And then their whole microbiome shifts
and our bodies during the winter months,
are not meant to consume sweet things,
even a lot of fruit. This is why it's so
important to eat seasonally. And fruit
is not in season. So, we're not supposed
to be eating any sweets during the
winter months. And so, that affects the
microbiome, which can then affect your
neurotransmitters. In fact, most of the
serotonin made in your body is made by
your own microbes. And this could be
also part of the problem why people get
sicker during the winter time as well.
If we take a look at a view of this
problem, we really have something called
an ancestral mismatch, which basically
means we haven't adapted to this modern
time. Our biology is meant for a
completely different environment without
all this artificial light, without all
these refined foods. That being said, it
has adapted to the cold. Cold is not the
enemy. It can actually be very, very
good to go through cycles of cold and
then higher temperatures. As long as you
are exercising, as long as you get
physical activity, your body will thrive
in that environment. But if you combine
a sedentary lifestyle with artificial
light and bad foods and sitting inside
all day, terrible. So what can we do?
Number one, and this is probably the
most important lever in making change
with your mood. You need to be exposed
to morning light either outside, which
is exposure to the sun, especially your
face. Don't look into the sun, but allow
the sun to get in your eyes. Super
important. And also, even if you're
wearing clothes, the infrared from that
sun will penetrate your clothes. Goes
right through. Or just buy an indoor
light. It's called a full spectrum
light. You can put it somewhere by your
computer and you can expose yourself to
it for 15 to 30 minutes when you get up
in the morning. That light in the
morning is going to reduce this and it's
also going to help you sleep at night,
especially if you anchor the nighttime
with less blue light. You want to start
dimming things down about 90 minutes
before you go to bed. You don't want to
expose yourself to blue light on your
cell phone before bed. And you want to
be very consistent with the time you go
to bed at night. I tend to go to bed in
the winter about 10:00. And then I'll
get up about 6 6:30 maybe 7. The other
thing that's really really important is
your diet. Don't give into the junk
food. In fact, when you go grocery
shopping, bring a list. Don't go to the
grocery store when you're hungry because
you are going to buy things that you
shouldn't be buying. So, in other words,
in your house, don't keep any junk food.
You're not feeding highly refined sugars
to the microbiome because the bad guys,
the pathogens eat the refined sugars.
And so, when you eat that junk, you're
feeding those guys. It's going to affect
your neurotransmitters. and take
advantage of the cold, but just also
pair that with more physical activity,
whether it's inside or outside. Super
important because so many people during
the winter, they kind of just stop
exercising because it's too cold out and
they stay inside. I have a free download
that I want to give to you. This free
download is my daily routine in a
checklist. This is a routine that I use
every day to feel like I'm 18 years old,
even though I'm 60 years old. And I want
to give it to you for free. And so,
there's a little link down below. click
it and definitely download that. Now,
even though vitamin D is only one piece
of the puzzle and it's actually not the
biggest lever light is, vitamin D is
still important not just to prevent
depression, but for over 2,000 genes.
And for more information on that, you
need to watch this video right here.
Check it out.
