Today I'm very excited to bring you Dr.
Roger Schwilt, who is quadruple
boardcertified in internal medicine,
pulmonary diseases, critical care
medicine, as well as sleep medicine.
Doc, I had a question. How does light
penetrate through the body actually get
into our cells and then what does it
actually do inside ourselves? Um there's
a great paper that was just published by
Glenn Jeffrey and Robert Fosbury out of
the University College London. And what
they published in Nature Scientific
Reports is is an amazing study that
really answers the question that you've
just asked because what they did was
they took subjects outside in the midday
sun in London and they were able to
actually demonstrate sunlight coming
into our body. They were able to measure
it on one side of the body and they were
actually able, believe it or not, to
measure it on the other side of the
body. Obviously, much less,
>> but they were able to actually see the
wavelengths that the body was, let's put
it this way, had a windows to to allow
those wavelengths to go through. So,
let's just step back a little bit. The
sun obviously gives off multiple
wavelengths on in the ultraviolet into
the visible spectrum and then all the
way down into the infrared. And we know
this is a a normal physical attribute of
light is that light that has longer
wavelengths is able to penetrate through
the human body much more easily than
shorter wavelengths or visible light. So
that's important to understand because
when you have long wavelengths that not
only are able to penetrate through your
clothes, but what Glen Jeffy's group was
able to show was that it was able to
penetrate through the entire body and
out the other side, obviously being
absorbed along the way. So this is this
is really important because prior to
that, we had studies that showed that
maybe it went a few millimeters, maybe a
few centimeters, maybe 8 cm. So then the
next step that he did was he was able to
look at that distribution of the light
that was coming through and he found the
wavelength that was the the wavelength
that the body was most transparent to or
translucent to and that was 850 nmters.
Now this is outside of our visible
spectrum. It's in the infrared light. If
you were to see this light you wouldn't
see it at all actually. It's invisible.
But what he did next was he took these
subjects inside and he set up these um
LED panels that transmitted at just that
exact wavelength, 850 nmters. And what
he was able to show was in a randomized
placeboc controlled fashion, which is
obviously one of the highest levels of
evidence that when light went into the
human body, he was able to show that
that light actually had an effect on the
mitochondria in the retina of the cell.
Now, why he chose that area is because
he has the tools to measure that. He's a
professor in the department of
opthalmology. He was able to measure by
looking at color blindness in the cones
of the eye. Now, here's the interesting
part about that study. What it showed
was that when he covered their heads
so that no light could get to that part
of the eye and did the same experiment,
he found regardless of whether the light
was hitting the eyes or not, there was
an improvement in the mitochondria
of the eyes such that the color
blindness threshold was dramatically
reduced. And he was able to show this in
other words that whether light was
hitting that part of the body or not. So
long as there was light actually getting
to the body, he was able to measure an
improvement in the mitochondrial
function in the retina such that these
subjects had improvements in their
visual perception of color. Now, there
was a control group where he just
actually had them stand in the same
place but didn't turn on the LED lights.
They had no improvements whatsoever. And
so there were areas that were affected
beyond the path of the light going
through that part of the body. This is
known as the abscopal effect. It's well
known. We've seen that mitochondria in
different parts of the body can actually
communicate with each other and actually
upregulate even though they're not the
ones that are exposed to the light.
>> So in other words, you're shining the
light in a certain part of the body, but
it's actually somehow communicating to
another part of the body.
>> They've seen actually free floating
mitochondria in the blood. so that this
actually gets to different parts of the
body. We're not exactly sure how that
works. We're just finding out that there
are ways that mitochondria can
communicate within the same organ and
actually in distal uh organs as well
>> because in the red blood cell you don't
have mitochondria, right? So
>> absolutely.
>> So it's going through the plasma or
something.
>> Correct. Correct. Now your question I
think there's a part of your question
that asks okay what is this light
actually doing? Yeah,
>> there's a number of theories behind
that. For those who really want to get,
you know, nerd out on this, one of the
things that the mitochondria do is they
convert these reducing electrons into
ATP, which is the the currency of
energy. And the way that they do that is
something called the electron transport
chain. Think about the Colorado River.
And you've got multiple dams along that
Colorado River. And what's happening is
as you have this water that's really
high in elevation, as it goes through
the dam and it comes out through the
bottom, you have these hydro turbines
that it's turning and that's generating
electricity. And then it goes down to
another level. And then there's another
dam where that happens until finally you
go into the the Gulf of California where
the water has no more elevation above
sea level and it's essentially water
with no more ability to turn turbines.
That's essentially the same thing with
the electrons. Electrons are transported
at the very high levels and as these
electrons start to fall down the
waterfall if you will down to the very
final electron acceptor which is oxygen
the energy that's extracted from these
electrons generate ATP. It's a highly
technical thing but here's where we get
to the point. The thought process is is
that infrared light is either making
that process more efficient. It's either
causing the water to be more structured
in a way that the turbines can move with
less viscosity or a number of things
that are actually happening at that
wavelength that's causing the efficiency
of the mitochondria to improve. The body
has ways of neutralizing these molecules
which cause oxidative stress. And what
we're finding out very interestingly,
and you've talked about this before on
your show, is that melatonin is actually
produced there in the mitochondria than
is produced that we are aware of in the
pineal gland that we have for sleep. So
melatonin is actually even more powerful
than glutathione when it comes to
oxidative stress. And so here we have a
built-in system in our mitochondria that
is called melatonin. Think of it as the
cooling system of the engine and it mops
up these oxidative stress molecules.
Well, melatonin may be actually having
an effect itself making the mitochondria
more efficient as well. And there's a a
paper that came out about five or six
years ago. Scott Zimmerman, Russell
Ryder, published in Melatonin Research
that proposes based on the evidence that
we've seen that this very same infrared
light that we're just talking about now
can actually stimulate the mitochondria
to produce more melatonin in that type
of a situation. That's mind-blowing
given the research that we just talked
about saying that this very same
infrared light can really penetrate
through the body and hit all of those
areas of mitochondria. I can't tell you
how many anecdotal stories I've heard of
people who are now starting to go out
and do this sort of thing. U people that
have been bedbound and I'm hearing them.
They're getting them outside into the
sunlight. They're now it's almost like
they've had a new lease on life. You
know, I I tremble to think about all of
the nursing home patients in this
country that barely make it down for
dinner uh once a day to see everybody
else and they're in their rooms and they
have what we call dark days and bright
nights. They're there. It's dark during
the day. They're not getting outside and
they turn on the TV to watch what's
going on and and they're not getting the
darkness that they need at night. And
what we really need, you know, as human
beings, I I see this often. You know,
nutrition is good for us, but so is
fasting. You know, um uh light is good
for us, but so is darkness. And it's the
it's the timing. Timing is everything
>> as far as infrared. People always think,
"Oh, I need now I need to go buy an
infrared light." But the sun gives off
what percentage of infrared?
>> As the sun is coming up, you are going
to get a certain amount of infrared
light. But as the sun goes higher and
higher, you're going to get more and
more of that infrared light because it's
able to penetrate through the atmosphere
better. Infrared light really isn't
affected too much by the atmosphere,
though. So, you can still get plenty of
infrared light even when the sun is
pretty low in the sky. Now, that's very
different than ultraviolet light. Now
ultraviolet light as you know
specifically ultraviolet B light is
responsible for making vitamin D in your
skin. That one unfortunately or
fortunately depending on how you look at
it that one does require the sun to be
pretty much overhead because whereas
infrared light is not very affected by
the uh thickness of the atmosphere
ultraviolet light is. And so you will
see when the sun is rising, there's
almost no ultraviolet light coming
through at that period of time. You've
got to wait for the sun to be much
higher overhead to get enough
ultraviolet light and get that vitamin
D. I have to think that those ratios, if
we were to study those, are probably
that way for a very good reason. Um, and
so if we're doing red light therapy, you
know, as a critical care physician, I
understand that people can't get outside
or it's too dangerous for them to get
outside or they're immobile. And so
these devices can actually fill a role.
I just don't want people to think that
you've got to spend a lot of money to
get a lot of red light devices when I
would love really to see people just
actually getting outside in the sun. So
if you're looking for the most amount of
infrared light and you don't care about
getting ultraviolet light, then when the
sun is highest in the sky, you're going
to be getting plenty of of infrared
light. Dr. Berg, there's one other thing
that I'm going to mention. green trees,
green leaves, and grass is exquisitly
reflective of infrared light. Almost
reflects almost 90% of it back to you.
And you may notice this. Infrared light
is the type of light that heats up
objects. If you go out on a very bright
sunny day and you see a leaf that is
sitting there in the sun and you feel
the leaf, it's cool to the touch. It's
not hot. And again, it's reflecting a
lot of that light. So, one of the things
that you can do that can really maximize
the amount of infrared light that you're
getting is to go outside and be in
settings that are green spaces. Wow.
>> In fact, we've known for a long time
that people who live in green spaces
have much less of the types of diseases
that we see when the mitochondria are
not working. Diabetes, hypertension. In
fact, it reduces all-c cause mortality.
Um, there's some interesting studies
behind that as well. But these are the
aspects of infrared light that I think
are people don't really understand and
it's really quite beneficial.
>> It's fascinating because everyone can go
to a park, you know. I I bought one of
those devices that you can measure the
spectrum of different different
spectrum, different colors, different
wavelengths of light. It's a little
device and I took it uh and I'm
measuring I'm looking at different I'm
looking at my greenhouse at the growing
lights and then I walk into the woods
where it's literally dark but it's the
sun's up there and it's basically
infrared. It's all infrared. I was like,
"Wow, it's just going right through the
canopy." And I'm like cuz I'm I'm trying
to figure out why do the fern plants
down here actually grow in the dark?
Don't they need sunlight? Apparently,
they can survive on a different
frequency. That was very interesting.
>> Yeah. Okay. I got to tell you a really
fascinating study. You'll love the
study. So, this was a study that's
called the Green Heart Study. It was
conducted in South Louisville, Kentucky.
This is urban sprawl, four square miles
south Louisville, Kentucky. Nothing but
concrete buildings and roads. And they
went around, they measured about 745
people's
HSCP. HSCP is a blood test and it
correlates with how much stroke or heart
attacks you might get. So they did that
and then they did something amazing.
Over the next 2 to three years, they
picked up a shovel and dug literally
8,000 holes in the ground and planted
8,000 mature trees with leaves growing
on it. Now, this is an important study
to do because for many years, critics
said that the reason why people in green
spaces did better was because the people
that tend to live in green spaces have
more money. They're more upwardly
mobile. So, Greenheart study measured
everybody that were living there already
in this downtown area. Planted 8,000
trees in four square miles. Okay, that's
pretty packed. And then after two to
three years, went around and measured
everybody's HSCP again.
There was a 13 to 20% average drop in
everybody's HSCP and they did not do an
exercise program. They did not provide
them basic income. They did not do any
like cooking classes. That was it. By
the way, a a 13 to 20% reduction in HCRP
correlates into about a 10 to 15%
reduction in strokes and heart attacks.
>> Wow, that is fascinating. How is getting
exposure to light during the day going
to help us go to sleep at night?
>> The reason why it's going to do that is
because of two hormones that are the
antithesis of each other. One is
cortisol and one is melatonin. What
melatonin is for sleep, cortisol is for
wakefulness. And what really is
beneficial about cortisol is having a
very high signal at the very beginning
of the day that tells the circadian
rhythm that tells the body, hey, let's
get up. Let's get ready for the daytime.
It's time to get going. And then what
that does is it really makes the timing
of the circadian rhythm so essential
that you get a much better melatonin at
the end of the day. If you don't get
that bright spike of light at the
beginning of the day and that nice spike
of cortisol, it's going to be this
little wimpy thing because nothing
happened and then the body's going to be
making up for that cortisol for the rest
of the day such that when you get to the
end of the day and you want to have this
nice melatonin spike to get you to bed,
you're going to be competing against the
still secretion of cortisol toward the
end of the day. And this chronic
elevated cortisol levels are not good
for the body. And then at night when we
want to go to sleep, so let's say a few
hours before we go to sleep, should we
what should we do with that? Supercatic
nucleus or the clock maker, the master
clock in your brain is saying, okay,
it's that time of day where it should be
nighttime. We should not be seeing any
light now because it is now nighttime.
And it's looking around to see and
making sure that there is no light. If
it sees lights, it's going to say, "Wait
a minute. I jumped the gun. It's not
nighttime. It must still be daytime.
Shut down melatonin, guys. We don't need
it. And we're still in daytime. In fact,
let me delay the circadian rhythm so
that instead of coming on at 9 or 10 or
11, it comes down at 12, 1, or 2. And
that's a problem because if you
constantly are exposing your eyes to
bright light at night, you're going to
get a delay of the circadium rhythm.
You're not going to get the melatonin,
which we've already discussed on here,
is a powerful antioxidant, and you're
going to have issues with sleeping at
night. So, you're going to want to go to
sleep one of those nights at 10:00 or
11:00 and you're not going to be able to
because your clock has been set for so
long at that period of time. If you
think you can get away with this by
doing red light, it's not as good as no
lights. Um, even in your bedroom. So, if
you want to sleep with patches over your
eyes, if you've got uh appliances like
clock radios that light up very
brightly, or you've got all sorts of
devices like VCRs or TVs that have LEDs,
my my advice is get those things out of
your bedroom. And if you can't do that,
put black tape over those areas that are
giving off lights.
>> Interesting. What about uh the blue
blockers?
>> Yeah. So, the blue blockers are ways of
blocking that particular wavelength that
your retina is most sensitive to at
night. So that's better than doing
nothing but not as good as turning off
the light. Now blue blockers during the
day especially in the morning is
probably one of the worst things that
you can do. Let me just tell you a
little study too. One of them was
looking at this hypothesis of melatonin.
Like we don't want to shut down
melatonin. Well there are people who are
blind because they have severed the
optic nerve and that's the fibers that
carry the light back to shut down the
pineal gland which we don't want to have
at night. What they found is that people
who were blind because of that actually
had 30% less cancer rates. And they
believe it may be related to the fact
that because the pineal gland was able
to secrete every single night the full
amount of of melatonin that it should be
without being shut down. They had the
benefit of having all of that. So the
question could be if this is truly the
case, what would be the benefit of
really practicing shutting down light at
night? If this is true, we could reduce
cancer rates by 30% just by doing that.
Now, it even gets even more uh apparent
and this is a study, this was published
in the proceeds of the National Academy
of Sciences, 88,000
strong study and and check this out.
This is what they did. They gave
everybody a watch with a light sensor
and they followed them for years and
then they measured uh who died and who
didn't. So, the way that they actually
measured this out um was looking at the
time of day, 4:00 at 4:00 in the
afternoon, they asked this question. Of
the people that had not greater than 90%
of the light coming into their watch,
how likely were they to die compared to
those that had less than 50% of the
light coming into their watch.
>> And so, you could do this at every
single hour of the day. And what they
found was that literally from 4:00 up
until about 10 or 11 p.m., those that
had the most amount of light coming into
their watch actually died less. Once you
hit about midnight till about 6 or 7:00
in the morning, people that had greater
than 90% of the light coming into their
watch versus those that had less than
50% had a higher chance of dying. Tell
us about the risk factor just for cancer
in relationship to shift workers. Is
there some data on that? Generally
speaking, if you talk to most shift
workers,
they do not carry that change in their
circadian rhythm into the days that
they're not working,
>> right?
>> Um, what they really should be doing, if
you are really a shift worker and you're
going to stay that way, you should
continue to be a shift worker even on
the days that you're off.
>> Y
>> because you really want to be like
you're living on the other side of the
planet. And that means sleeping during
the day with with curtains completely
sealed off, a black room that you're in,
and getting up in the middle of the
night and doing the same sort of stuff
even though you're not working. Now,
most people are not that way. And so, as
a result of that, your circadian rhythm
is still the same as anybody else. It's
just that you're working at night.
What's really fascinating about this is
that not only are there cancer issues
with doing night shift work because of
the shutdown of melatonin and we just
talked about what happened in those
people who are blind, but there's also
metabolic effects and uh people who lose
out on slowwave sleep tend to eat higher
calorie uh and more carbohydrates and
people who eat more carbohydrates and
high calories that tends to affect their
sleep. I'm a night shift worker, so I
work in the ICU at night. And I realized
this and I and the people that I work
with are there. Bless their hearts. Yes,
they're getting paid more to be there.
And so, this has really been a u a quest
for me is to figure out how we can do
night shift work uh more safely.
>> And I came across a really interesting
study. They took these two groups of
people, both have been uh doing night
shift work. And they they did a very
simple intervention. They said to one
group, "Okay, you basically do whatever
you want. Eat whenever you want." And
they ate all throughout the day.
Sometimes they ate at night. Sometimes
they ate during the day. They snacked at
night. And to the intervention group,
they said, "No, you're going to sleep
during the day like you normally would
and work at night, but you're only
allowed to eat during the day, but they
would never eat on their night shift
when they were actually working." The
results showed that they were able to
reduce by 80 to 90%
80 to 90% the pertabbations in metabolic
problems when they simply followed the
rule of if you're doing night shift work
don't eat during your night shift work.
And the reason for this they believe the
scientists who published this paper is
that your circadian central circadian
rhythm is on a particular clock but you
have peripheral clocks and particularly
in your GI tract right you eat food and
that's a huge stimulus to your GI tract
probably even more than light is and
that sets off something in your organs
your digestive organs that's something
that you would normally only see during
the day. So now what's happened is that
your your clocks are out of sync
>> and they believe that that out of sync
is one of the major engines for
metabolic problems, diabetes,
hypertension in workers who do night
shift work.
>> I wanted to talk about the type of
lights in someone's house because I know
with me I have all this I have track
lighting. I'm going to get rid of it or
I'm going to convert it to incandescent.
What's your thoughts on that?
>> Yeah, this is a huge issue. Now, let me
give you a little bit of about the
history of why we're in this situation.
So, it was in 2007 that Congress passed
a law that wanted to create standards
for something called general service
lamps. General service lamps are the
types of lamps that you go down to Home
Depot or Lowe's or buy an Amazon and you
screw into your ceiling. This law passed
in in 2007. it got sort of pushed into
the department of energy and recently
they finally came down with this rule in
about I think it was 2022 after much
debate and they made this 45 lumens per
watt uh rule. The reason is for this
when you put energy into an incandescent
bulb or a H hallogen bulb. A lot of that
energy is going into making lights that
you cannot see. And a lot of the
engineers that looking at this saw this
as simply just wasteful energy. And so
they devised a light that would make you
have only the energy going into making
visible light which is only a small
amount of the light that an incandescent
bulb makes. A lot of it is invisible
light which is in the infrared spectrum.
>> Wow.
>> So this is a way of making basically
lighting more energy efficient.
>> So this is what's happening to our
environment. You can't get houses built
without low e glass. You can't get
houses built without LED bulbs. Here's
the way around that. get outside. There
was a number of studies that showed that
people that had ailments that were
related to sunlight that we were able to
turn around the mitochondria in about 15
minutes. There was a study out of
Brazil. They showed that infrared light
940 nanometer once a day for 15 minutes
showed a dramatic statistical
significant difference between those two
patient groups.
>> So, what about you're in your house and
there's glass? There is glass you can
buy that doesn't filter out infrared.
Certainly, that's the old-fashioned type
of glass. You would might see this, for
instance, in a greenhouse. It's usually
very thin. They're trying to reduce the
amount of electricity that you're going
to have to consume to try to cool your
house down. Here we are living in the
21st century. We're living inside 93% of
the time. We go to our garage. We go to
our car. We drive to our underground
garage. We go to our office where we
stay and work late until the sun goes
down. Then we go home. We turn on TV. We
we socialize with our families, have
late meals, and we're not being exposed
to any sunlight. And literally, we can
do this for weeks or months on end
without actually seeing the sun.
>> You just gave us so much amazing data.
This has been incredible. Thank you so
much for being on here and taking the
time to give us this great data. And you
I can tell that you've you've bent the
physical universe to be able to study
all this stuff. And I can imagine you
you're you've dove in deep dives way
into this like hardcore. Obviously,
>> I had to. It it was just so incredible
the more and more I studied and realize
that we've really missed a huge like you
said, I mean, timing is is the new
nutrient. And uh we're not getting it at
the right time. We're getting the wrong
type of light at the right time. And
I'll I'll just finish with this. I think
there's a big debate in this country
about what is good food and what is
processed food. And I think people are
starting to wake up and understanding
that there's good light and there's also
processed light and that makes a
difference.
>> I like that. Thank you so much. I hope
you really enjoyed this video on the
importance of light. But there's one
more topic related to the sun that
involves vitamin D. And to really wrap
your wits around this topic, I created
the most amazing video on this and I put
it up right here. Check it out right
now.
