The number one magnesium mistake that
nearly everyone makes. If you're taking
magnesium to fix your sleep or your
anxiety or a muscle tension, like a
muscle cramp, and it's not working, you
might be unknowingly making a massive
mistake. Look at the back of your
magnesium supplement bottle. You will
notice that the average dosage is
between 350 to 420 mg per dose. Here's
what they never tell you. That number
was never designed to optimize the
amount of magnesium you really need for
your brain, for your nervous system.
That number was calculated to give you
the survival threshold to prevent
serious deficiency diseases like
seizures. That's it. Just the bare
minimum. And when you take the bare
minimum amount, which is directed on the
back of the label, and you're expecting
certain results, and you don't get the
results, don't be surprised because that
amount was never designed to create a
therapeutic effect. And this all boils
down to one misunderstanding on what RDA
really means. Here's a definition of
RDA. Check this out. The RDA is the
average daily level of intake sufficient
to meet the nutrient requirements of
healthy individuals. The RDA numbers
were designed for people that were
already healthy that don't have muscle
cramps or high blood pressure. If you
have serious muscle cramps, insomnia,
anxiety, the demand and requirement for
magnesium goes higher. And on top of
that, if you drink coffee with caffeine,
if you're eating some sugar, if you're
taking in an acid, the demand for
magnesium is higher. The RDA assumes
that you are a healthy person eating a
healthy diet. And personally, it's rare
to find people out there that are
healthy that are eating a healthy diet.
Now, the RDA for magnesium was set up in
1997 based on body weight, which
correlated to women that weigh 133 lbs,
which nowadays a lot of women weigh more
than that, and men that weighed 166 lb,
which nowadays they weigh a lot more. So
if we actually recalculate and do the
numbers on someone like me that I weigh
195 lbs, the adjustments from about 420
mg for magnesium for me should be about
600 milligrams per day, not 420. I'm
just talking about the RDA. The bare
minimum amount to prevent a disease.
We're not talking about corrective
doses. We're not talking about the
doses. They even used in certain studies
that showed improvements in anxiety,
depression, blood pressure, and
migraines. Those studies use up to like
800 milligrams of magnesium per day,
sometimes for weeks, and sometimes even
higher than that. One clinical group
stated that the minimum dosage to begin
correcting a deficiency is 600
milligrams per day. And they mention it
should be continued for more than a
month before you even see any results.
So when someone starts taking 300 or
even 400 milligrams of magnesium for a
couple weeks and says it doesn't work,
of course it's not going to work because
it's like filling up your swimming pool
with a garden hose and they turn it off
within 10 minutes. And then this brings
us to the next massive mistake.
The form of magnesium that most people
take and that most research is
historically based on is something
called magnesium oxide. Now, magnesium
oxide is super cheap. It's compact, so
you could fit a lot of it in one
capsule. You could fit like 400
milligrams in one little capsule. That's
why people like it because they don't
have to take multiple capsules to get
their 400 milligs. But the problem with
magnesium oxide is it only has a 4%
absorption rate. That means if you're
taking a 400 mgram magnesium oxide pill,
the body might absorb 16 millig. And
then if you try to compensate and take
more, you're going to get diarrhea,
cramping, GI distress because all of
that unabsorbed magnesium pulls water
out of your intestines. And then think
about magnesium research. Most of the
research on magnesium is using magnesium
oxide. So, first of all, you know,
they're not going to be able to give
them too much because they're going to
get diarrhea and the absorption is so
small. 16 mg per 400 mgram tablet is
just not going to show the results. And
this is why when you look up the
research on magnesium, many of the
studies don't really prove or show
significant benefit. I don't recommend
anyone taking magnesium oxide unless you
have severe constipation and maybe
you're taking it just for that as a
temporary thing. A much better form of
magnesium would be to take magnesium
glycinate. First of all, you won't have
the GI problems. You won't have
diarrhea. Secondly, you absorb 80%
and magnesium glycinate comes with the
glycinate part which actually helps calm
down the nervous system. It helps
increase something called GABA, which
actually can help you sleep a little bit
better. But now, let's talk about
something even more interesting and how
magnesium affects your brain. Your brain
has an accelerator, gas pedal, and it
has a break. So, the neurons can get
really excited or they can wind down and
calm down and get in a relaxed state so
you could sleep. And without getting too
far in the woods, okay, glutamate is the
gas pedal. That's the thing that excites
the neurons. And there's a little
receptor connected to this that allows
this to work. And this is a normal thing
that happens, right? When you hyperfocus
on something, when you react very quick,
when you need brain power, this system
kicks in. But then it's supposed to wind
down when you're about ready to go to
sleep. And then when you're sleeping and
you're recovering. Okay? So we have this
onoff situation. Glutamate is the on.
And then GABA is the off switch or the
calming effect in the neurons. And so
what you need to know is magnesium is
the helper. It's called the co-actor for
this receptor to help wind this system
down to allow the overexited neurons to
turn down. But when magnesium is low, we
have no way of turning down this gas
pedal. So the neurons stay overexited.
So the brain tends to run hot even when
you're sleeping. Well, what does that
feel like? It feels almost identical to
high levels of cortisol. And this is why
high levels of cortisol and neuron
overexitation
produce virtually the same symptoms.
Okay? Anxiety,
insomnia, especially the latter part of
the night. Okay. Irritability, like
little things bother you. You tend to
crave certain things, racing thoughts,
cramping in your calves or your feet or
a Charlie horse, palpitations
that can lead to arrhythmias. So, in
other words, all of these symptoms could
be either a cortisol issue, which is a
stress issue, or something going on in
the brain that can't turn off. And most
people assume it's just cortisol. So,
they might take ashwagandha.
They might take other things, adaptogens
to help calm them down. And sometimes it
works, sometimes it doesn't. Sometimes I
even take magnesium, 400 milligrams, and
they might feel a little bit better. But
for a lot of people, the problem might
not be cortisol. It's this over here. In
which case, you're going to need a lot
more magnesium to turn that thing off.
Because a lot of people, if they have
these symptoms, are not in a healthy
state. So, one of the most frustrating
things for people is when they try to
take supplements for a certain thing or
vitamins and just don't see change.
Well, one of the reasons is you're not
taking enough. But the bigger
interesting question is, are there other
symptoms that can differentiate or
determine if you have more of a cortisol
problem or an overactive brain? Okay.
And the answer is yes. For cortisol,
you're going to have a tendency to have
more belly fat. You're going to have
higher blood glucose. You might have
more cortisol in the morning, which will
actually create more glucose in the
morning, too. That's called the dawn
phenomena. You may have problems with
the immune system because cortisol
suppresses the immune system. You might
have more of a problem with high blood
pressure. But now let's take a look at
this problem over here. You'll have
problems with insomnia despite
exhaustion. So many people are
exhausted, but they just can't sleep
through the night. Okay, that's this
problem right here. It's a problem with
glutamate. They have too much glutamate
that just won't turn off. They might
have muscle twitches. They definitely
have jaw tension and bxism, which is
grinding of the teeth. Restless leg
syndrome. I used to have that. But also,
the good thing is that if you have this,
you're going to respond to magnesium
within hours. If you take magnesium and
it's a cortisol problem, it might take
days before you see the results.
The good news is both of these problems
are caused by the exact same thing, a
deficiency of magnesium. But to correct
both of these problems, you can't just
correct them by taking the bare amounts.
I mean, this relates to a lot of other
vitamins, too, like vitamin D. They say
take 600 IUs. That's ridiculous. Or what
about B1? 1.2 milligrams. Are you
kidding? You're not going to create any
change in the body if you're taking tiny
amounts. But a really common problem
with both of these issues is insomnia
because as soon as you can't sleep,
cortisol goes up. Cortisol then depletes
more magnesium. The requirement of
magnesium goes up. The more brain
excitation that happens, the more demand
for magnesium. The more tapped out you
are, the more insomnia you have. So it's
a neverending cycle. All because the raw
material that allows this to turn off
and allows this to turn off is missing.
Now, this next thing is fascinating
because when you go to the doctor to get
your magnesium tested, it's virtually
impossible to test because most of this
magnesium is inside the cell. It's not
in your plasma, okay? Only 1% is in your
plasma. So if you're deficient in
magnesium, your bones will literally
dump some of the magnesium into the
blood to maintain that 1%. So you cannot
accurately figure out how much magnesium
you have through your blood. 99% of it
is not in the blood. So then someone
might say, well listen, we'll just get a
red blood cell magnesium test. That way
we can look beyond just the plasma. We
can look in your red blood cells. Well,
here's the problem with that. It's
slightly better, but it's not a good
test to do because of this one simple
thing. 65%
of the magnesium is attached to what's
called ATP in your mitochondria because
we desperately need magnesium to run our
energy factory. That's how we make
energy with magnesium. Well, guess what?
There is no mitochondria in the red
blood cell. So, it's not a good test to
evaluate how much magnesium you have. I
mean, there is a test that's not
practical. You can get an IV of
magnesium and then they can measure how
much is excreted from your urine. It's a
whole process, but you can test it, but
rarely does anyone go through the hassle
of figuring that out. In one study, they
found 50% of people that were deficient
had normal blood magnesium levels. And
this was a test that they actually did a
biopsy and they tested the tissues
directly because that's another way to
figure out if you have enough magnesium.
Do a biopsy. A doctor named PJ Weston
gave magnesium to 50 patients with
severe agitated depression. Well, guess
what he found? 220
out of 250 depressed people improved.
That is a 90% success rate. That study
was published in the first volume of the
American Journal of Psychiatry. And of
course, it's been forgotten, but it's
been sitting there for over a hundred
years. And in that study, they didn't
give the 400 milligrams per day. They
gave between 500 and 1,200 milligrams
per day. 60% of depression nowadays is
classified as treatment resistant. Okay?
Because the drugs don't work. Well,
okay. Well, it could be something else,
right? It could be a nutritional
deficiency. I mean nowadays, not only do
doctors not test for vitamin
deficiencies, they don't even recognize
them as being important. And also the
problem is it's very difficult to get
magnesium from our foods because the
modern farming fertilizers with the NPK,
nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium tend
to inhibit magnesium. But we have these
beautiful looking crops. Of course,
they're empty of minerals, but they look
good on the outside. And then, of
course, on top of that, we have stress.
We have caffeine. We have junk foods.
All of these things deplete magnesium.
Exercise depletes magnesium because it
increases the demand for magnesium at a
massive level, especially if you do
intense exercise. So, what is the
solution? Very simple. Take the right
form of magnesium, magnesium glycinate.
And if you're trying to create a
therapeutic effect,
don't do just 400 milligrams once a day.
Do 300 or 350 or 400 milligrams several
times a day spread out to lower blood
pressure and help palpitations and
arrhythmias and migraines and even
seizures and even insomnia. Sometimes it
takes doses a,00 to,400 milligrams per
day and that is significantly more than
the RDA. But now you know why because
this is just based on the bare minimum.
So just try it for 30 days and prove it
to yourself. If you have this problem
right here, you're going to notice
changes within one day because typically
when you start beefing up your magnesium
levels, within hours you start turning
this off because with addictions and
cravings, the glutamate is really
driving you to these unhealthy habits.
So, I did create several videos on that,
but I didn't talk about the magnesium.
So, you'll have to add that to the
protocol, but I'll put those links down
below. Now, magnesium is a fascinating
topic. There's more to learn about it.
And if you have not seen this video on
magnesium, you should check it out. It's
very important.
