Hey, Dr. Burke here. In this video,
we're going to talk about the big zinc
mistake. I should put an S after that
because there's four big mistakes. Why
am I even talking about zinc? Because
without zinc, you will die. Zinc is so
important for so much of your
biochemistry because literally 200 to
300 different enzymes require zinc.
Let's dive into the first mistake. And
number one is taking too much zinc. On
several videos, I recommend taking a lot
of zinc. between 150 to sometimes 200 mg
of zinc. Zinc and copper work together.
In fact, they compete with each other in
absorption. When someone's taking too
much zinc, they're actually depleting
copper. There's a really simple
solution. Just take copper with your
zinc. The ratios of zinc to copper is
like 10:1. So, let's say you're taking
30 mg of zinc. you would take 3
milligrams of copper. There's something
else really interesting about this.
There's a paradox related to the immune
system. When you take a lot of zinc, it
can help your immune system. When you
take a lot of zinc, it can hurt your
immune system. And it's simply certain
parts of the immune system are benefited
from a lot of zinc, but other parts are
benefited just with the right amount of
zinc, not too much. If you have an
inflammatory infection of any kind, I
would definitely want to take at least
100 to 150 to 200 milligrams of zinc for
3 days. Only if you're taking high
amounts for weeks and weeks and weeks or
months, then you're going to find part
of your immune system might be
suppressed. Anytime you're getting zinc
from foods, you do not have to worry
about what I just talked about. I'm only
talking about taking zinc supplements in
higher amounts. Let's move to number
two. There's no co-actors taken with
zinc. Co-actors are nutrients, vitamins,
and minerals to allow for our
biochemistry to work. This is why when
someone's deficient in zinc, they lose
their hair. They lose their sense of
smell and taste. They can no longer make
testosterone.
they no longer have libido. Their immune
system can no longer function. When it
comes down to zinc, there's some really
key nutrients that you need in order for
zinc to actually work. The first
nutrient is magnesium. If you're
deficient in magnesium, zinc is not
going to work for you. This is another
reason why I am really against just
taking one nutrient in high amounts for
a long period of time. You want
connected nutrients to allow it to work
and not to create problems. Another
really important co-actor for zinc is
B6. It is the activator for magnesium
for the neurotransmitters that affect
your mood. It's involved in the
menstrual cycle. So if you're deficient
in B6, you may have PMS even in the
carpal tunnel right here. This is why
one of the remedies for carpal tunnel
syndrome is vitamin B6. Why? Because it
gets rid of fluid retention and
inflammation. Also folate. Folate is
involved in making red blood cells,
making DNA, preventing inflammation in
your arteries. You need some folate for
zinc to work. Let's move on to number
three. Not knowing when you are
deficient. Yes, you can look on your
nails and occasionally you'll get those
little white specks that mean that
you're deficient in zinc, but there's a
much better way and it's basically
called the zinc test. You can buy these
little bottles of zinc and you put some
in a teaspoon and you put it in your
mouth and you swish it around. You don't
swallow it. What you're doing is you're
just seeing if you can taste it. It's
kind of a metallic strong taste. If you
are deficient in zinc, it will not taste
like anything. It'll just taste like
water. That brings up the question, what
foods are high in zinc and trace
minerals? A lot of these trace minerals
are in the sea. So anything seafood,
shellfish, seaweed is all high in zinc
and trace minerals. When you get your
zinc from shellfish or oysters or even
red meat or liver, it is much better
than plant-based trace minerals. Number
four, taking too little zinc. Okay, well
that's just as bad as taking too much.
When you consume grains, you get phytic
acid. Phytic acid blocks zinc. This is
one reason why a lot of children are
deficient in zinc because they consume a
lot of cereal with grains. Next thing is
diarrhea. If you have diarrhea, you're
going to lose a lot of zinc because you
start losing not just zinc but also
sodium and other minerals as well. Not
having enough stomach acid is very bad
for absorbing minerals because you can't
absorb minerals if your stomach acid is
not strong enough. We need stomach acid
to break down protein, but we also need
the stomach acid to absorb minerals. As
we age, our stomach acid goes down,
down, down, down. We can't digest
protein and we can't get these key
nutrients that we need. Drinking alcohol
depletes you of zinc. Being pregnant or
having too much estrogen when you're on
birth control pills increases the need
for zinc. This is why like diabetics,
for example, are nearly always deficient
in zinc because they have high levels of
sugar in their blood. Let's say, for
example, someone's addicted to
pornography. there's a big chance they
will become zinc deficient because semen
has a lot of zinc contained in it. The
average person needs a lot more because
of all these other factors that increase
the demand for that key trace mineral to
create a therapeutic effect. You need at
least 30 to 40 milligrams per day.
That's what I recommend because there's
so many things that increase the demand
for zinc. The more exercise you do, the
more zinc you're going to need. The more
muscles you have, the more zinc you're
going to need. Zinc is also needed to
heal wounds. This is why zinc carnosine
is the best remedy for ulcers. Even like
diabetic ulcers can be remedied by zinc.
Where should you get your zinc? Well, I
think you should start eating foods high
in zinc. Red meat, shellfish, liver,
oysters. There's a lot of different
types of zinc, but there's one type that
I like more than others, and that would
be a zinc amino acid chelated remedy,
like a zinc glycinate. You get more
absorption. Should you take zinc with
your meals or an empty stomach? Ideally,
take it when you eat. However, you can
still take it on an empty stomach. It
will still work. I take mine on an empty
stomach because I do a lot of fasting,
but you'll get just a little bit more
absorption if you consume it with your
meal. Now that you know the zinc
mistakes, there's some amazing
additional benefits of zinc that you've
never heard of. And for that
information, check out this video right
now. It's right there.
