The number one exercise to correct flat
feet. I wish I would have known this a
very long time ago because I personally
had flat feet. It can really affect not
just your feet but your whole body. It's
very interesting to know that flat feet
are not genetic. When you were born as a
baby, you were born with flat feet. And
you have flat feet until you reach the
age of like 6 years old to 10 years old.
Some people as they get older, they
develop this fallen arch because they
don't really exercise these muscles of
the foot. Why do we have an arch? The
main purpose of this arch is to give us
free energy. When we walk, it acts as a
preloaded spring. If you ever see like a
dog run really fast, they have these
preloaded ligaments and tendons that are
like springs that literally propel them.
When you have this arch, it can act as a
spring to propel you for quick movements
also climbing on different surfaces. If
you don't have this preloaded spring,
you still walk, but other muscles have
to be recruited. The propelling motion
has to occur from muscles higher up.
It's your flexors. And I'm talking about
your thigh muscle on the front part
called the quads. They have to do extra
work. And then in the core, the flexor
called the soas has to do extra work.
The muscles on the back part, the
hamstrings, the glute muscles, the lower
back are underused and they get weaker
and they start to atrophy. All coming
from the foundation not being correct
like a flat tire. I am going to talk
about how to prevent flat feet, but I
want to show you also the most amazing
solution for flat feet. Maybe you might
think an arch support. It may give you
some temporary relief, but it's a bit of
a handicap. You need to do what I'm
going to tell you very shortly because
this exercise doesn't just activate this
whole area. It strengthens the atrophied
muscles that you might have. You ready
for this? Sprinting. Sprinting puts back
that spring. If you ever see someone
with flat feet that's older and they
start to sprint, oh my gosh, they can't
do it. But guess what? There's a way
within six to eight weeks that you can
get that spring back, which will solve a
lot of your back problems and other
issues as well. Because there's no other
exercise that activates the glute and
the hamstrings more powerfully than a
sprint. To contrast on that, the worst
exercise to do is jogging because you're
compounding on this thing. And usually
when you're jogging, you might be
hitting your heel first. This is
terrible. Sprinting will not just fix
the foot, it rewires the entire body.
There are a couple exercises that I'm
going to recommend that you do before
you start sprinting. You're going to
start with skipping. There are two types
of skipping that I'm going to talk
about. A skipping, you're skipping tall
and you're punching your knees up with
rhythm. Then you want to also add B
skipping. With B skipping, you're doing
the same as A, but you're kicking your
foot out and then you're pulling it
back. You're going to also add that and
kind of do that until you get used to
it. I also recommend an exercise called
high knees. As you're sprinting, you're
just bringing your knees higher or
exaggerating the knees higher than they
usually come. And then we also want to
add something called butt kicks where we
flick the heels back to the butt while
you're running in place. After you do
this for a while, then you're going to
start your sprints. When you do an
actual sprint, I recommend you only do
it at 60% intensity. I would also
recommend doing two to three sprints of
just 15 seconds before you stretch. I
don't recommend you do static stretches.
That kind of turns off the muscles. I
just recommend doing these other
exercises before you sprint. A couple
other recommendations with kids to
prevent flat feet. Try to get kids to
play in the grass in a safe environment
without their shoes so they can develop
their arches. I highly recommend the
shoes that you get your kids are not
really thick soles like flat barefoot
shoes. They have a lot of different
options even on Amazon that you can get.
Also, we want to make sure that the toes
have enough room to breathe and move.
What this is going to do, it's going to
take a lot of pressure off of your lower
back because you're going to make your
glutes real strong and you're going to
be more erect and it's going to help
your lower back. You're going to have
better posture as well. I also think
there's something going on early on in
life that contributes to this problem.
And that would be a lack of vitamin D, a
lack of vitamin K2 and magnesium. Those
three, if missing, can actually make the
connective tissue, the collagen, weaker,
and also like dental mal formations,
needing braces. You might have
scoliosis. Think about what ricketetts
is. Ricketts is soft bones. If you have
soft bones, muscles can pull the bones
out of position. You can imagine that
could set you up for a weakness in the
bottom of the foot as well. And then
later in life, you develop planer
fasciitis. Huh. I wonder why. On that
note, I'm really interested in you
trying these sprints and these other
exercises because it's important for
other people watching this video to know
a lot of people tried it and it's helped
them. I have a free download that I want
to give to you. This free download is my
daily routine and a checklist. This is a
routine that I use every day to feel
like I'm 18 years old even though I'm 60
years old. And I want to give it to you
for free. And so there's a little link
down below. Click it and definitely
download that. Now that you understand
flat feet, the next thing you must know
about is planter fasciitis and the
exercises to completely reverse that.
And for that, you should watch this
video right now. Check it out.
