You know, I'm 60 years old and it took
me literally 30 plus years to learn what
I'm going to show you. And I'm going to
cover seven of the biggest mistakes I've
made. I hope you learn from my mistakes
so you don't have to go through them. At
the time I was making the mistakes, it
would be really hard to convince me
otherwise because I was kind of in the
mindset of I think I know it all and I
wasn't really receptive. So, I hope
you're receptive. That can prevent years
of misery. I don't know if I'm just a
glutton for punishment or whatever, but
I've been through some serious health
crises in my past. On one hand, I think
I can relate to a lot of people since
I've had nearly every single symptom
that most of my patients had. So, I
wouldn't consider that a good thing, but
it's something that happened that I can
relate. But, let's just dive in to seven
huge mistakes that I made that I want to
show you what I should have done. Number
one, 100 vitamins a day. There was a
point in my life where I was taking even
more than 100 vitamins a day. I'm
talking not just vitamins. I'm talking
bottles of vitamins. I would be driving
down the street with my wife and I'd
say, "Honey, let's go over to the health
food store. Maybe they can help me."
We'd go in there and come out with more
vitamins. I had a warehouse of vitamins.
I had chronic fatigue syndrome. I had
severe insomnia. I had arthritis.
All sorts of issues. and I'm trying to
find the vitamin that's going to give me
more energy and help me. And so this
kept happening over and over and over
and over because I didn't want to take
drugs. I wanted to take something
natural. Okay? But what I didn't know at
the time, they only work if your diet is
good. Okay? My diet sucked. And I just
didn't have enough of the macro
nutrients. If we take a look at macros,
we're talking about fats, protein, and
carbohydrates.
I was doing a vegan diet at the time and
trying to get protein from plants. Oh my
gosh, I did not do well on that. I just
couldn't feel satisfied. What I should
have done is I should have started the
day out with animal protein. You have to
realize the purpose of protein is for
repair of the body. A lot of our body is
protein and we have to replace that. And
a certain portion of that goes to
energy, but we mainly get our energy
from carbs and fats. And I'm going to
recommend don't get your energy from
carbs, get it from fats. And so if I
would have gone back in time, I would
have focused on fatty animal meat.
Number two, detox was really popular.
Here you are flushing out all your good
bacteria, too. And you're flushing out
electrolytes, which could be very
dangerous. And you were eating basically
nothing. You had some fiber,
apple juice, some vitamins. And the
problem is if I would have not consumed
the apple juice,
I could have got into ketosis and I
could have actually probably felt good
during it. But you never want to do a
cleanse or a fasting program with juice.
And I did the master cleanse with lemon
juice. I think cayenne pepper and maple
syrup. I've done that, too. Bad idea
because the body can never convert over
to fat because you just have enough
sugar to keep things going. So, you're
always going to be hungry. And I would
just feel miserable while I'm doing
them. So, I had a lot of digestive
problems afterwards. But it wasn't just
the colon detoxes. I did herbal detoxes.
And I can't tell you how many times I
got sick for two weeks because I'm
taking these powerful herbs that release
toxicity which then create an immune
reaction. And now I'm sick in bed for
two weeks. I remember one time I did a
gallbladder cleanse. Okay? So, I drank
12 ounces of extra-virgin olive oil. And
before I did that, I took a handful of
beet pills cuz I thought, well, I'll
just wash it down with olive oil.
Stupid. I just like I had all that in my
mouth. I drank all this olive oil and
then it solidified in my esophagus. I
mean, like I almost died. And then you
have to lay on your right side for a
period of time. I mean, I've done it
all. So, again, that was like a complete
waste of time. What I should have done
is just get on the right eating plan,
maybe take some supplements, but the key
is getting on animal protein,
vegetables, some probiotics, some
cheese. I would have solved so many
problems. All right, number three. I
said, I'll eat healthy when I graduate.
I was in college, living on carbs, not
to mention very strong coffee. And if I
could only go back in time and if I ate
healthy, which wouldn't be that
expensive, by the way. I could have had
just eggs or sardines or something like
that. But oh my gosh, my brain would
have worked so much better. I was just
constantly tired through college trying
to struggle to study when I'm so tired
and I had to sleep. But a lot of that
fatigue was just blood sugars. I didn't
know it. And what's interesting about
this, as soon as I graduated, did I eat
healthy? No. And then I became a vegan
for a while because I thought that was
the healthy way to go with all these
beans and the clean protein. And that
was really bad because my entire gut
started getting inflamed and I started
going downhill even faster until
eventually I figured out the healthy
version of the ketogenic diet where I
started to really turn my health around.
And if I would have known about that
back then, it would have been a game
changer. Don't wait until you get my age
to change your ways because it's going
to catch up with you sooner or later.
might as well do it right now. I promise
you'll be happy down the road. Number
four, this is interesting. Right
shoulder pain. I had this delusion that
I had right shoulder pain and I had to
fix it. So, I went to every single
therapist, chiropractor, massage
therapist to keep working on my
shoulder. I had a permanent tightness
underneath my right rib cage all the
time. It was just constant and I didn't
know what it was. The right shoulder
pain is nearly always a red light
indicator switch for your gallbladder
and the bile ducts in the liver. I did
go to several doctors after I had an
ulcer and they're just like, "Yeah,
looking at me kind of funny, like, yeah,
I don't know what that is." My bile was
sludge that caused some tightness
through this area that I was always
pressing into that referred pain in my
right shoulder. Question, do you really
have the right cause or could it be
coming from something else?
That's the lesson for that one. Number
five, intermittent fasting. Nothing.
What does that mean? Someone told me
about intermittent fasting a long time
ago, and I was like, that that's
nothing. There's nothing to that until I
actually tried it and looked at it from
the viewpoint of our ancestors who did
not eat so frequently. And the snacking
raises insulin. Every time you eat, you
raise insulin. It's the frequent eating
that creates so many problems. It's way
more significant than you think. All the
snacking, especially at night before you
go to bed, we're constantly grazing.
This is so different. Our bodies were
not designed to graze. Okay? And as soon
as I started giving up the snacking, not
only did I go from 211bs down to 185,
but all the swelling in my eyes cleared
up. That was like an insulin problem.
That was fluid retention. I had a round
face. Many people that have a puffy face
or round or puffy eyes are just eating
too many snacks and doing too many
carbs. Okay, so intermittent fasting,
wow, that was a game changer. I
recommend it for everyone. I recommend
the average person should only be eating
two meals a day and some people should
just be doing one meal a day because if
you start doing too many meals, you're
just jacking up insulin. You think you
actually have real hunger when it's not
hunger, it's just low blood sugar.
You're running on glucose and you can
only last so long, maybe an hour and a
half until you need a little something,
right? So, you keep getting in this mode
where you're fueling the body, but
you're really just living on sugar. You
never converted over into fat burning,
ketosis.
So, that's the purpose of that system to
be able to go from one meal to the next
without being hungry. Number six, I was
doing the kale shakes. I still have a
lot of videos on this. They're okay, but
I was doing way too many. Okay? I was
just down on these kale shakes. I was in
this mindset that we needed to do a
tremendous amount of fiber, okay? And I
was getting away with it up to a certain
point and I didn't really have a
problem. But I do know a lot of people
you overload them with fiber, okay?
Especially with a lot of kale shakes and
it just creates bloating and
inflammation in their gut. If I could go
back in time, I would have just started
small and just see what they can
tolerate, but not go crazy with all the
kale shakes because with the kale, you
have to sweeten it. So, you have to have
pineapple, blueberry, and now we're
adding more carbs. It's not the best
healthy thing in the world to do. Now,
that being said, I'm not against
plants. I'm not against a combination of
plants. I think for most people, they
could have a moderate amount. Some
people need smaller amounts. I'm not
consuming the 10 cups of salad anymore.
I don't recommend it. I pretty much do
like five cups one time a day, but
sometimes I'll switch it to fermented
sauerkraut. I do a lot of that.
Occasionally I will do a kale shake, but
it's not going to be a huge massive one.
I'll just do a little bit maybe with a
little bit of blueberries. I'm very
cautious about too much fruit,
especially if it's like sweet pineapple.
And especially if you're just doing a
kale shake for breakfast, I don't
recommend that. If you're going to do a
breakfast, do a protein breakfast, don't
do a little bit of a sweet carb thing
for breakfast because it's going to
create hunger and cravings down the
road. Okay, let me go to number seven.
Magnesium deficiency. One of the
antidotes or prevention for kidney
stones is magnesium. If you don't have
enough magnesium, you'll have this ratio
of too much calcium that will connect to
the oxalates because your body actually
does make oxalates too. It doesn't just
come from like spinach and kale and
almonds and chocolate. What happened
with me, I did have a kidney stone and
at the time I wasn't eating a lot of
spinach and things, but I was very
deficient in magnesium. I really never
took magnesium as a supplement through
the years. It prevents the calcium from
making a stone and that really is a game
changer for helping a lot of people get
rid of stones especially if they're
starting to get one and make it shrink
and also prevent kidney stones. It's
magnesium. But that's not all. I had
muscle spasms. Magnesium is all about
the relaxation of the muscles, okay? And
it's a controlling factor over calcium.
If you don't have enough magnesium, the
calcium will take over and you'll have
more contractions. And boy, did I have
Charlie horses and cramps. I also had
for years terrible insomnia. I had
terrible fatigue. So, I had a a really
severe magnesium deficiency, not to
mention vitamin D deficiency. So, both
of those were a huge problem. I think
one of the ancestral things that we did
way back in the day is we got a lot of
magnesium from our wellwater. and then
all of a sudden it switched and got rid
of the magnesium, especially in the city
water. That's one of the big causes of a
magnesium deficiency is we don't get it
from the water like we used to. I have a
free download that I want to give to
you. This free download is my daily
routine in a checklist. This is a
routine that I use every day to feel
like I'm 18 years old even though I'm 60
years old. And I want to give it to you
for free. And so there's a little link
down below. Click it and definitely
download that. And so now that I covered
the mistakes, let's talk about what you
should be eating as the most important
foods. Okay? And for that information, I
put it in this video right here. Check
it out.
