We're going to talk about how to 10x the
results of using castor oil, not just on
your face, but in many other
applications. It's been around for at
least 4,000 years. It was found in some
of these ancient Egyptian tombs and has
been used in Chinese medicine, Indian
medicine for thousands of years, yet in
an unaltered state. It's actually a
pretty deadly poison. In the process of
making the oil, certain things are taken
out to make it one of the most healing
things that you can put on your body.
Let's first talk about the type of
castor oil that you get. If you're just
getting some commercial castor oil
that's not organic, it's not coldressed,
then you might be getting a chemical in
there called hexane, which is in
petroleum. You want it hexane free, cold
pressed, organic in a darker bottle
because you don't want something that's
rancid or too refined as an oil to put
on your skin. It's one of the thickest
oils, but it has something in it that is
so rare, it's not in any other plants.
It's a certain natural chemical called
riceolleic acid which has the ability to
get rid of a spot on your face. It gets
rid of wrinkles. It is super hydrating.
Castor oil has the ability to penetrate
all three layers of your skin and in
some cases even dissolve certain types
of lumps on your body. Probably one of
the biggest mistakes that people make.
They're not using it consistently
enough. They try it once and they expect
these miracles to happen. Be consistent.
Use it longer. You have to do this three
times a week for at least 30 days to six
weeks in some cases to start seeing
change. You want to use just a little
bit and really rub it into the different
parts of your face. And you're going to
find that it actually helps to hydrate
your face. One of the biggest benefits
of using castor oil on your eyelashes or
even eyebrows, it tends to increase the
growth and the thickening of your
eyelashes and even your eyebrows. works
on skin tags, warts. For those things, I
would also add iodine and garlic. Iodine
helps to reduce estrogen. Some people
even use it on the eye itself for dry
eyes. Another thing that castor oil can
do, which is pretty significant, is
increase the strength of your immune
system within 2 hours. Let's say you
have tartar. Castor oil has the ability
to help dissolve tartar. Let's say you
have a problem with a liver issue or
maybe even like a really bad arthritis
somewhere in your body. This is why they
use castor oil packs to put it on
different areas of your body, even
putting it on the liver to help liver
congestion and increase bile flow. You
can buy them on Amazon or online, which
are certain types of cloth or cotton
that you soak in castor oil and then you
apply it over your body like a bandage
over a period of time. Because castor
oil penetrates through the skin deeply,
you can use these packs over your
ovaries if you have a cyst, for example,
or even on the breast. You want to make
sure you take seek help because of the
iodine. Iodine helps to reduce estrogen
and usually fibrocystic breast problems
come from too much estrogen. You can
actually add something called DMSO. It
goes right into the skin. It's a highly
penetrating substance. But also,
magnesium oil is very important to add
if you have any type of arthritis in
your lower back or maybe you can rub it
into the knees or even your feet or even
arthritis on your hands. even the the
muscles on your shoulders, the traps. So
that way when you go to sleep at night,
you're very very relaxed and you're
ready to go right into the deep sleep.
Another little hack I would recommend
for your skin. If you really want to
take your skin to the next level, dip
your face in an ice bath, then you add
the castor oil. The combination is going
to create a really amazing effect with
your skin. We could also add a couple
more things to this. You can start going
on a fast, like a 48 hour fast or even a
72-hour fast where your body is going to
start cleaning up all the dead stuff and
the dead cells and replace it with new
cells. Adding that additional step would
just take your skin to the next level.
It's kind of a multi-layer effect of all
these great things for your skin. And of
course, this also is dependent on what
you eat. Another really important
application is on any scars, stretch
marks, or even scars from injury. You
can use those and rub it into the skin
and see huge benefits from that. Castor
oil also activates hair growth. So, you
can rub it into your scalp and to help
your hair growth. And it's also good for
dandruff and dry scalp because of the
antimicrobial effect. If you're going to
use it for the scalp to help with your
hair, I would highly recommend you use
the Jamaican black castor oil. Also,
let's say you have a lot of inflammation
in your body and castor oil is a very
potent anti-inflammatory and you want to
create a systemic effect through the
entire body. You can rub it into your
feet. It gets absorbed into the feet and
it gets absorbed into the blood
throughout the entire body. Of course,
if you have arthritis on your knees or
your fingers, you can rub it into the
hands or your knees or even your lower
back if you have pain in the low back.
And this last one is important. If
you're pregnant, realize that when you
take castor oil, it can create early
contractions. So, you don't want to be
doing that unless it's time for
delivery. And then on that note, if you
haven't seen my part one castor oil
video, I'm going to put that up right
here. They're checking out.
