Today we're going to talk about how to
never get cancer. Then I'm going to give
you 30 scientifically proven tips. And
the big problem with cancer is the
conventional model of cancer I believe
is not correct. Over 70 years of doing
research on cancer. I'm talking
trillions of dollars. The five-year
survival rates have not budged. And
also, there's not a lot of enthusiasm
funding alternative research other than
if it's chemo, radiation, or surgery.
Now, that's a big problem, especially if
you're trying to avoid or prevent
cancer. To be able to prevent cancer,
you have to really understand cancer and
exactly what it is because the medical
model uh says that cancer is a mutation.
It's a spontaneous mutation of your DNA.
And that basically means some alteration
or change in the blueprints of your
cells. Then the solution is to kill
those cells and destroy those cells with
chemotherapy, radiation, surgery. And
that's pretty much the model of what the
conventional viewpoint of cancer is. So
that's conventional over here. Okay,
let's take a look at another viewpoint
on cancer, the metabolic viewpoint on
cancer. And so in that model, you don't
first have a genetic mutation. Instead,
you first have damage to the
mitochondria. That's the little little
uh energy factories in the cell as the
first thing that happens and then you
might get a mutation down the road over
here. What I'm trying to do is I'm
trying to give you the foundation behind
cancer of what it is because if we don't
really understand the foundation of it,
all these recommendations are not going
to work because it's based on the wrong
problem. What is a cancer cell? It's a
cell that has lost its ability for the
mitochondria to work correctly. The
cancer cell has hijacked it. One really
important thing about the mitochondria
is that it needs oxygen
to work. But with cancer, it can live
without oxygen. And if we go back in
history and look at the primary driver
of of what's really going on, the
purpose of this whole thing is that
these cells are just trying to survive.
and they had to survive in different
environments in relationship to oxygen.
They actually created a plan B. They
created this other system of getting
energy and that's called fermentation.
And this is why when they diagnose
cancer and they try to evaluate it, they
use what's called a PET scan. A PET scan
is looking for areas in the body where
there's this hyper metabolism of glucose
and it kind of lights right up because
this cancer cells is fermenting like
crazy and it's hogging all of this sugar
like a huge vacuum cleaner just trying
to suck all this sugar to try to get
energy. It's trying to survive. And so
then the PET scan is scanning the body
to see what areas are in this hyper
metabolism of glucose or fermentation.
First, you're going to get damage in the
mitochondria cells in a certain organ.
Okay? So, let's say for example, um
you're a smoker and you have smoked for
many years and all the smoke is going
into your lungs and then one day you get
a virus. You get pneumonia. Pneumonia
now is acting like a spark. So now you
develop lung cancer. Another big trigger
could be low amounts of vitamin D since
vitamin D is like the master regulator
of the immune system. and then you let
your vitamin D drop too low. Now that
could be the trigger to colon cancer. So
now let's go through the things that you
can do to actually avoid cancer. Okay,
let's start with number one, vitamin D.
And it's very important in uh
controlling your entire immune system.
There are a couple different cells, so
actually there's quite a few different
cells in your immune system that
directly target cancer cells. There's
some great data that shows that in order
to shrink tumors, you need to get your
vitamin D blood levels above 90, but I
would keep your vitamin D levels between
60 and 80 at the very minimum. That way,
we can keep enough immune support
because conventionally what they're
doing is they're using chemo and
radiation and they're also killing off
your immune system. But if you kill off
the immune system at the same time, what
then is going to prevent it from coming
back? Because there's always a small
amount of cancer cells that survive the
chemo. We really need to maintain a
strong immune system with vitamin D.
Okay. Number two, cold therapy. We're
adding a stress to the body that forces
our body to make a lot more
mitochondria. Just think about what
happens when you go into this cold
immersion tank or you take a cold
shower. Your body has to maintain 98.6.
You just got into a cold tank. It's 50°
or 40°. It's freezing. What does your
body have to do to maintain that
temperature? It has to cause that
mitochondria just to work like crazy.
Not to make energy, but just to make
heat to counter that. So, it's a massive
stress on your mitochondria that then
causes the mitochondria to adapt and
become stronger. Intermittent fasting is
probably the most important ways to
prevent cancer. And I'm talking about
two meals a day, one meal a day. You go
maybe once a month, 3 days, or even five
days of no eating. If we're talking
about damaged mitochondria being at the
heart of this problem, then you would
want to clean up all the damaged
mitochondria, the best way to do it is
through a condition called autophagy,
which is a condition where your body is
recycling old damaged cells and cell
parts and mitochondria and turning those
into new ones. So, this is super
therapeutic to constantly generate new
mitochondria. and it's one of the best
ways to prevent cancer, especially since
cancer originates at the mitochondria.
Number four, if you're grilling steak or
meat on the grill, that charring of the
meat and the fat is carcinogenic to
certain degree, but if you add some
herbs, garlic, thyme, sage, or even
onions, you just countered that
carcinogenic effect. And this is just a
real simple thing to do because these
herbs have all sorts of plant-based
chemicals that protect you against
cancer, but they also support the
mitochondria. Number five, if you're
getting a CAT scan or X-rays, you're
getting radiation,
something called ionized radiation. I
used to be an X-ray tech. I used to do
portable X-rays at nursing homes for
many years, and I never wore a lead
shield. I was exposed a lot to
radiation. I I was stupid. I should have
done that. I've had a just a ton of
dental X-rays. I've had a lot of CAT
scans because I had kidney stones long
ago. So, I have had a lot of radiation,
which is something that can actually
damage your mitochondria, right? Maybe
request not to get an X-ray so
frequently. And if you do get an X-ray,
make sure you shield that thyroid. And
also, if you're going to get a CAT scan,
see if they can do an MRI or an
ultrasound just to reduce the radiation.
Okay. Next point here is folate. When
you have a folate deficiency, it's very
similar to being exposed by radiation as
far as the damage on your DNA. So, just
make sure you have enough folate. You
can get folate from dark leafy green
vegetables or even liver has folate.
Number seven, methylene blue. It's one
of the first drugs that was ever
created. It's actually a dye. It's made
synthetically from petroleum, but it
does some really interesting things to
your mitochondria. The pigment in this
methyline blue helps to absorb some of
the the free radicals from the electrons
that are being uh generated in the
mitochondria and it protects you. Kind
of take it in an intermittent way. And
this is true for a lot of different
therapies, whether you're doing
intermittent fasting or intermittent
cold therapy because if it's adding a
little bit of stress to the body, then
you can pull back and let the body
recover. It's just a better way to take
things, including the methylene blue.
Number eight, prolong fasting. Prolong
fasting is probably the most powerful
out of any of these things right here.
In fact, if you had cancer, especially
if you had like a stage four cancer that
it's spreading and there's it's like
serious like the only thing you can
really do at that point is prolong
fasting. And I'm talking fasting for 20,
30 or more days in a row. The problem
with that is that you might be very,
very thin and fragile and old. And the
point is that you might not be able to
survive that. So, you'd want to do what
you can do. and then pull back, kind of
go back to eating and then do fasting.
But it's not just prolong fasting you're
going to do if you would had cancer. You
would layer it on different herbal
remedies. But I just wanted to kind of
put more attention on prolonged fasting
right here. Number nine, the ketogenic
diet, low carb. Why? Because what the
keto diet does is it helps to correct
insulin resistance. Insulin resistance
is probably one of the biggest things
that destroys the mitochondria.
We're trying to make insulin more
sensitive and stabilize the blood sugar
so then the mitochondria can heal and
you can run on ketones which actually
are very therapeutic to the
mitochondria. Always do the healthy
version of the ketogenic diet. Number
10, avoid snacking. Well, that probably
would be covered in this intermittent
fasting, but I just wanted to make
another point about snacking of what
that's going to do. I would say out of
all the things that a person could do
that actually ends up creating insulin
resistance,
yes, carbohydrates, but it's also the
frequency of eating. I think you should
eat based on how much energy you really
need. And so this really is an
individual thing, but it's going to
protect the mitochondria if you just
give it the fuel it needs and then make
sure you exercise at the level you need
to use that fuel and not go crazy and
and overdo it. Next one right here is
omega-3 fatty acids. That would be like
civer oil or fish oil. This is very
important to prevent inflammation
because if you're doing a lot of seed
oils with omega6, they're highly
inflammatory. So you're just flooding
the body with inflammation. And like I
said before, cancer migrates into areas
of inflammation. Number 12,
sulfurophane. This is a compound that
helps detoxification, getting rid of
poisons in your liver. So sulfurophane
is super powerful to do that. And you
can get a lot of this from broccoli
sprouts or even radishes or even
cabbage. Any of the cruciferous
vegetables will have this, but broccoli
sprouts are at the top of the list. 13.
Iron. Cancer cells will use iron to
multiply a lot faster. They like iron.
And so if you're taking iron
supplements, not good. If you're cooking
in iron skillets, not a good idea. You
never want to take an iron supplement
because too much iron creates a lot of
inflammation in the liver and the joints
and we have a hard time getting rid of
it. Number 14, selenium. This is the the
trace mineral. You don't need a lot, but
that helps you get rid of hydrogen
peroxide in your body, which can create
damaged tissues. It's also important in
certain parts of the immune system also
to help build up antioxidants like
glutathione. So, selenium is in
shellfish and Brazil nuts. So, that can
help you. Number 15 is magnesium. You
cannot make energy without magnesium.
And the mitochondria depends on
magnesium. So it's super important. So
having enough magnesium from leafy
greens, pumpkin seeds, and even
avocados. It's kind of hard to get
magnesium from the diet. I take it as a
supplement and I have the powder. I
dissolve it. I take it in the evenings
before bed. The hallmark symptoms, which
is the leg cramps and the toes that
cramp, it also can create restless legs
and a lot of other issues. But anything
muscle spasm, you need magnesium. 16 is
something called NAD. This really is
something in the mitochondria that helps
in the extraction of energy from the
food and the precursor for this is
niacin B3. So as we age we get less NAD
and a lot of people uh take B3 for
cholesterol but it's just another key
nutrient that can support the energy
production in your mitochondria.
If you're going to take B3, I recommend
you take the one that gives the
flushing, but don't take a lot at first
because it might scare you because
you're just going to have this huge
flushing reaction. Just take maybe 50 uh
milligrams to start off and just see how
you do with that. I feel much better
when I take B3. Number 17, colostrum is
one of the best things to do if your
immune system is damaged from like a lot
of antibiotics or predinazone. I had a
lot of antibiotics myself and a lot of
predisone. So there was one point where
I was on colostrum. It's a great thing
for the immune system because colostrum
is like in the first part of milk and
you have probiotics, you have all the
immune factors. You literally have your
mom's immune system in that colostrum
and it's in the first few days of the
breast milk. But if you haven't been
breastfed, you might have some
weaknesses within your immune system.
So, you want to get it from an animal
and you can take some in a powder or
pills and it can help support your
immune system which is indirectly going
to help reduce the risk of cancer.
Number 18 is AHC.
And the reason I bring this up, it's a
very interesting remedy for certain
viruses, herpes. But it also is a potent
trigger for certain immune cell in your
body called the natural killer cell,
which has two jobs. One is to kill
viruses and number two is to kill
cancer. And since we're talking about
the natural killer cell, we have to talk
about betaglucans. Very potent trigger
of the natural killer cells. And you can
get this from certain mushrooms. The
rishi mushroom, very potent, and the
shiake mushroom are loaded with
betaglucans and they can greatly help
your immune system, specifically the
natural killer cells that go after
cancer. And then we get to pomegranate.
Pomegranate is fascinating. It has a
compound that really reduces
inflammation, which can then help the
mitochondria and also inhibit the spread
of cancer. Chamomile tea has a very
interesting compound called apigenine
which decreases a certain cell called
CD38.
Okay, CD38
which helps preserve
this NAD in your mitochondria which is
that thing that extracts energy from the
cells. All you really need to know is
chamomile tea is good for the
mitochondria. Now 22 is a water filter.
This is really important since our water
is so toxic. Out of all the things that
you should probably invest in is some
good water filter
for drinking. The most important and
maybe in your shower just because we're
swimming in a sea of toxicity,
unfortunately. All right. Number 23 is
forest breathing. What is that? It's
walking through a forest where there's
pine trees. Uh the pine trees give off
this certain uh vapor that actually
improves our immune system. It actually
increases that killer tea cell that can
help kill cancer as well. It's very
therapeutic too just from reducing
stress, getting more oxygen. I always
feel really good when I walk through a
forest. Let's talk about green tea.
Green tea has something in it decreasing
what's called angioenesis which means
the cancer cell is like hijacking and
trying to get blood flow and resources
by developing new capillaries in the
vascular system. Well, green tea
actually inhibits that process. All
right, number 25, black seed oil. One of
those remedies that just works on so
many different things. It's a powerful
antioxidant. It has research to help
inhibit certain types of cancer and it
also supports the mitochondria. What a
coincidence. 26, 27, 28 all increase
oxygen. Remember, we're trying to get
rid of the areas of your body with
hypoxia and just flood the body with a
lot of oxygen. So, exercise is the
absolute best thing. different types of
exercise, long walks, highintensity
interval training, and also occasionally
if you do hyperbaric that can really
push oxygen into the tissues deeper. But
then if you do hypoxia training, you're
actually restricting oxygen whether
you're climbing a mountain or uh using
that mask where you restrict the air.
What'll happen? you're doing it only for
maybe 10 seconds or 30 seconds, but then
you have a rebound effect where now the
cells are going to adapt and you're
going to have more capacity to carry
oxygen. So, I think um to get more
oxygen sometimes you have to do
intermittent hypoxia training. I think
this is one of the best therapies. I'm
doing it right now. It's amazing. And uh
you go to bed at night and you just like
your whole body is just relaxed. And
then EMF, electromagnetic fields. If
you're close to a Wi-Fi or a router or
your computer, it's going to create a
problem because EMF causes calcium to
build up in the mitochondria and it
destroys it. It's kind of like invisible
tobacco. It's one of those things that's
creating toxicity, but we don't see it,
so it's not really on our radar. And
number 30, avoid refined sugar and
starches. That's probably at the top of
the list as far as things that damage
your mitochondria right here. So, you
need to stop consuming these because
it's literally setting you up for cancer
down the road. Now, I hope you have a
greater appreciation for what to do to
avoid cancer. And parallel to this
topic, I have over 280 different videos
on it. It's vitamin D. And out of all
those videos, the most important one
relating to vitamin D is this video
right here, which I highly recommend you
watch right now. Click this video right
here. Check it out. Yeah, this one right
there. Click it. Watch it.
