Did you realize that snake oil is the
number one most ignored superfood?
That's right. Wait till you hear what
real snake oil can do for your body. But
I first want to dive into the snake oil
concept that's been pushed out there for
over 100 years, especially in
relationship to snake oil salesmen. When
people think of that, they think of
health fraud. But let's do a little deep
dive into this topic because it has a
very interesting history. Back in the
1800s, there was a lot of people out
there selling all sorts of things in
them that weren't natural. Selling them
for arthritis and pain and digestive
issues and all sorts of things. And they
got a bad rap because some of them, not
all of them, had some ingredients that
weren't legit. Like for example, this
gentleman here, Clark Stanley, he was
selling snake oil for arthritis, but
then when the government tested his
snake oil, they found there was no snake
oil in there. And so he got in trouble
and his fine was I think back then it
was $20. Nowadays it' probably be about
600 bucks. So he got a slap on the
wrist. He's like the poster child of the
snake oil salesperson. And they got
branded anything natural at the time
because right about that time there was
a bit of competition between this new
drug industry and natural remedies,
herbs, etc. There was a shift towards
more new pharmaceutical drugs. But in
reality, back then, snake oil was
shipped from China. For the Chinese that
were working on the railroad all day
long, they had to use some remedy that
was really good for arthritis and pain.
And that's what they used back then. But
of course, some people that sold it
didn't really have the legitimate snake
oil. And that snake oil back then they
used it was a very specific Chinese
water snake. It wasn't an American
rattlesnake that did not have the same
amount of omega-3s. So in 1906 was the
birth of the pure food and drug act and
they were going after like um
misbranding and also adulteration of
foods. Uh definitely sold across state
lines and that itself is has an
interesting history because there was a
gentleman that was in charge that had
integrity but they very quickly booted
him out because his battle back then was
fighting adulterated food like highly
refined wheat. And fast forward to
present time, we have a lot of foods
that are adulterated, right? Cheaper
versions of food. We have cheaper
versions of sugar cane with high
fructose corn syrup and beet sugar. And
then you have the seed oils which
replace the the healthier fats, the
saturated fats, as well as the olive
oil. Now, the FDA actually started at
least for a very short period of time to
be very uh non-corrupted. But then, of
course, look at what happened. If we
really analyze what a snake oil
salesperson is, it is some person or
group that is committing health fraud.
Their ingredients are dangerous. They're
counterfeit. They're falsely marketed as
a cure. They're giving false claims.
It's pseudocience.
They have shills. Like for example, back
in the day when they had these uh snake
oil salespeople, they usually had
someone in the crowd who was a shill who
was basically a plant. Someone that was
supporting this claim and they would
maybe raise their hand and said, "Hey, I
tried it. It's worked great. You guys
should try it, too. I wonder if this is
still going on to some degree." And as I
was looking at it, I'm like, it's
definitely going on nowadays. Can you
actually buy a scientist to support your
drug? The answer is yes. big pharma has
been involved in criminal fraud cases
and I'm talking about in the tune of a
hundred billion dollar settlement fees.
The organizations that took over from
the initial uh snake oil salespeople are
basically just replace them, but they're
much bigger companies now. In one case,
$150 million lawsuit with another $600
million uh civil uh penalties. Many
drugs are considered safe and effective
and then all of a sudden they're found
to be severely dangerous like Vio. Vio
was considered to be safe until they
found out like 60,000 people died and so
they had to take it off the market. How
did that happen? Well, obviously there's
fraud, there's corruption, there's very
little transparency in the actual data
of these research studies. Just think
about psychiatric diagnosises, right?
There are like thousands of different
things for normal behaviors. They
literally vote on what this disease is.
There's no objective testing. It's all
let's vote on this disease and they
manufacture diseases. Currently, there's
17,000 different diseases. Back in 1900,
there was only like 200. So, in other
words, there's been a lot of
manufacturing diseases purely to just
it's a cash cow. And then what about the
SSRI, right? Those drugs for depression
and anxiety, billions of dollars.
Recently, they found out that this whole
chemical imbalance theory was never
proven. It's not true. All of these
SSRIs based on this false claim that it
can help balance your chemistry was
never true. To me that is snake oil on
steroids especially since it barely
works better than the placebo and but it
causes massive massive harm to that
patient who takes it. We have this
situation where we have exaggerated
benefits and minimize side effects. We
have situations where big pharma is not
even liable if they get sued with
vaccines for example. Then you also have
a situation where you can buy insulin in
another country for a fraction of the
money that you can buy in the US. So
there's just a lot of uh financial
manipulation as well in the area of
drugs. From my viewpoint, big pharma is
snake oil 2.0. We have now legalized
snake oil salespeople who are FDA
approved that can patent a remedy and
then have the FDA police that patent.
That's what they do. Incredible. Nowhere
out there can someone have a patent and
have another organization like the FDA
protect the drug companies from anyone
infringing on their patents. I mean,
it's just mind-blowing. You have many of
the expert panels within the health
administration, the government uh have
massive conflicts of interest. To me,
that's not science. That's not
legitimate. That falls in this category
right here simply because there's money
involved. And then what about the mental
health screenings in schools? I mean,
it's like a recruitment funnel for the
psychiatrist. I mean, that is going on
right now. Hopefully, we'll be able to
stop it. So, please explain to me in the
comments how different this modern-day
snake oil is different from in the past.
Very, very similar operation. It's just
a lot bigger. And somehow the whole
thing has been inverted
where natural remedies now, even
legitimately studied natural remedies
are considered snake oil. I mean, it's
beyond me. Let's get into real snake oil
and what are the some of the benefits of
it. What's interesting about snake oil,
it's one of the richest sources of
omega-3, specifically this EPA. Omega-3
fatty acids uh are composed of uh mainly
two things. DHA, which is kind of a
structural fat for your brain, and it's
really good to repair brain cells and
cognitive function. But then you have
this other omega-3 called EPA. Very
different different function. Snake oil
is super high in EPA, more than fish
oil, more than salmon oil, more than a
lot of other foods. So now the question
is what does EPA really do? If we take a
drug or like an anti-inflammatory, what
that's going to do, it's going to block
an enzyme. But that's not what this
does. This literally changes the
pro-inflammatory factors to more
anti-inflammatory
factors. It changes the whole ecosystem.
And when you do that, you don't get the
side effects from the drug. This EPA is
a very potent anti-inflammatory
compound. anything involving
inflammation, whether it's arthritis,
berscitis, tendinitis, autoimmune. They
also found that it has some pretty
potent effects on depression. So, it's
even considered like a natural
anti-depressant.
It's also been found to decrease the
risk of cardiovascular heart attacks by
25%. It also can help decrease the risk
of fibrosis. This is scar tissue.
Because when you have inflammation
that's unregulated, it can then turn
into scar tissue as the body is trying
to heal from the inflammation. So this
EPA can actually reduce the risk of
fibrosis in the liver, in the heart,
anywhere, even in the brain. Also, it's
been found that EPA increases insulin
sensitivity. So, it's going to make your
blood sugars work better. Great for
diabetics. There's been some really cool
effects on decreasing the risk of
autoimmunity. And even if someone has an
autoimmune disease, improving it. Why?
Because the biggest part of an
autoimmune problem is inflammation. And
if you're going to do anything for that
condition, reducing inflammation would
be the number one thing you want to do.
They even found that it actually could
decrease tumors because it improves the
regulation of the immune system, which
is just fascinating. And of course, big
pharma tried to patent this EPA. They
couldn't do that. So, they came out with
a compound and they're using it now for
arthritis and I think decreasing
triglycerides. One last point about
snake oil. You can use this topically.
You can rub it on a joint. It can
actually help reduce inflammation
without even taking it orally, which is
pretty wild. So, I hope that shifts your
viewpoint on real snake oil. If you have
not seen my video on the
anti-inflammatory foods that you should
be eating, you should check it out. I
put it up right here.
