Just one half of a teaspoon of this one
thing can be comparable to ibuprofen for
inflammation. And that thing is
turmeric. I'm not talking about the
turmeric that you sprinkle on your food
or your eggs. I'm talking more about a
concentrated turmeric because turmeric
is a spice, but there's a certain thing
in turmeric called curcumin that is
really doing the magic. But you can't
just take turmeric as a spice and expect
it to do what I'm going to show you
right now. So many videos complicate
this topic with all these big
biochemical names. All you need to know
is this very simple. There are four
master switches or dials that will turn
up pain and inflammation or turn down
pain and inflammation. And that's
basically the gist of it. This dial
right here is the pain and inflammatory
factory. It produces pain signals and
inflammation. The second dial is the
master inflammation on switch. So it'll
trigger hundreds of different genes in
relationship to turning on inflammation.
It's kind of like the master circuit
breaker for inflammation. And then you
get the third dial. This is the
inflammation megaphone. It's like an
amplifier. It amplifies inflammation. It
doesn't cause pain directly. It just
keeps inflammation going on and on and
on. And this is why a lot of the drugs
for autoimmune diseases target this
biochemical pathway. And then we have
the fourth alarm right here. This is the
backup inflammatory alarm system that
keeps screaming long after the fire is
over. And I'm talking about
inflammation. And this is why certain
treatments will address one thing, but
they don't address everything
necessarily. And this one's really
important for asthma, inflammation, and
autoimmune disease. So, now you know the
basics on biochemistry as far as pain
and inflammation. Let's first talk about
ibuprofen. Ibuprofen is really good at
turning this knob off. Pain and
inflammation, and it does so very
quickly. But here's the problem. Part of
this process here protects certain
organs like your stomach and like your
kidneys. And so when you take ibuprofen,
it will turn off those pathways and you
can end up getting side effects like
stomach ulcers, problems with the
kidneys, aka side effects. And the other
thing you need to know about ibuprofen,
ibuprofen does not deal with these other
pathways. It doesn't deal with the
master inflammatory on switch or the
megaphone or the backup inflammatory
system. And this is why people have to
keep taking it over and over and over
again because it doesn't resolve the
whole process. Now, just as a side note,
Tylenol doesn't even affect any one of
these. Tylenol works in your brain and
so it shuts off the central nervous
system for pain. So, you don't feel it,
but it doesn't do anything for
inflammation. What about aspirin?
Aspirin only focuses on this pathway
right here. Not this one, not this one,
or this one right here. But as you know,
when you block things right here, you
can create side effects with the
stomach. This is why people that take
aspirin end up having bleeding stomach
sometimes and other side effects. Now,
with Tylenol, you can have a lot of side
effects in your liver. Now, let's switch
over to turmeric. What does turmeric do?
Turmeric has a completely different
strategy. It affects not just the COX
pathway, but this pathway and this
pathway right here. not as strong, but
it starts to turn down the dial of all
three of these right here. And the
research, which I'm going to share in a
minute, involves taking 1,500 mg with
black pepper because black pepper helps
the absorption of turmeric. But only a
half a teaspoon of this extract can
create a comparable effect to ibuprofen.
Let me just tell you a little bit about
this study. This study was a randomized
controlled study. It was double blind.
It was on a reasonable sample size, 367
people, and it was peer-reviewed and
published on humans, not mice. And it
showed that concentrated turmeric
curcumin at 1,500 milligrams with black
pepper showed comparable effects to
ibuprofen. But the biggest thing that I
think you need to know is without the
side effects that you would get with
ibuprofen. There's a couple other things
that I want to share with you. Extra
virgin olive oil does mimic some of the
effects of ibuprofen at the molecular
level. Not as strong as ibuprofen, but
it turns down the dial. And so this is
why I would recommend using this on a
regular basis on your salad. And as a
fun fact, do you know that little tingle
that you get in the back of the throat
when you actually consume the real
extravirgin olive oil? Did you realize
that if you took liquid ibuprofen, you
would get the same effect on your
throat? Couple other things. Ginger is
kind of an unrecognized, undernowledged
remedy for this pathway right here,
which is really good for turning down
inflammation. This pathway is like the
amplifier of inflammation.
Also, this pathway is where the omega-3
fatty acid works. Like fish oil, cod
liver oil will address this pathway,
which helps reduce inflammation. Now,
hum addresses this one right here. A lot
of people take this for autoimmune
disease. And now you know why? Because
it reduces the megaphone of
inflammation. But it does not work on
this pathway, this pathway, or even this
pathway. Let's talk about this pathway.
It's called five locks. This is the
backup inflammatory alarm system. This
is the one that can still activate even
by shutting these off right here. It
just so happens that bosellia, which is
an herb, this targets five locks. So,
bosella is another great remedy for
inflammation. And now you know where it
fits into the scheme of things. Now, I
want to answer a bigger question. We've
talked about what turns off pain
signals, but my question is what turned
them on in the first place. What is the
root cause of all of these right here?
All right, I have my other whiteboard
here. There's actually five primary
things that turn on the inflammatory
switches. Okay, and this is actually
more important than the last part
because if you know what turns it on,
then you can actually not just manage
the pain and inflammation, you can
correct it. And this is the part that
medicine doesn't focus on. All of the
ones I'm going to talk about turn on all
four of those pathways. And if we can
correct these, we can not only turn all
of them off, but we can actually make
sure they don't come back. The biggest
one is insulin resistance. Insulin
resistance happens when you consume a
lot of carbohydrates over a long period
of time, sugar and starch, and also you
eat frequently. So you're snacking on a
lot of things. And also you can get this
from consuming too many seed oils.
People with insulin resistance have a
lot of pain and inflammation. Okay.
Number two, mitochondrial damage can
come from a lot of things. It could come
from this. It could come from smoking.
It could come from junk foods,
ultrarocessed foods. It can come from
overtraining, not getting enough sleep,
having a sedentary lifestyle. And then
number three, we have chronic oxidative
stress. This could be from a lot of
things. Toxicity, it could be from
smoking, drinking, eating junk foods.
And number four, leaky gut. Again, this
relates to things that you are eating,
ultrarocessed foods. Gluten can do it
and seed oils can create leaky gut. And
then number five, you have chronic
infections like you could have Lyme
disease. You could also have Epstein bar
virus or herpes virus that can go in and
out of remission. But what's interesting
about that, people with chronic stress
can activate these latent viruses that
can come out of remission and create
inflammation. But what's interesting is
these are the five things that turn on
these switches. And so if we're going to
use medication to turn those off and get
side effects and ignore these, then
we're really missing the boat. So if we
look at these, we want to correct them
with going on a low carb diet, okay?
Because that's how you correct insulin
resistance. You have to give up
something called ultrarocessed foods,
aka junk foods. You want to do, of
course, intermittent fasting. very
important. Intermittent fasting is
probably one of the most powerful things
to reduce inflammation that you can do.
Your inflammation just goes away. Your
arthritis goes away. And then prolong
fasting is the next level
anti-inflammatory because I've had
people with the most severe autoimmune
inflammatory conditions completely get
rid of inflammation by doing prolong
fasting. There's several nutrients
involved in inflammation as well. Having
enough magnesium can reduce not just
inflammation, but any type of muscle
inflammation. And vitamin D is one of
the most powerful anti-inflammatories as
far as natural things as well. When
you're deficient in vitamin D, you're
going to have inflammation. If you're
lacking zinc, that can create
inflammation. If you don't have enough
omega-3 fatty acids, you can have
inflammation, especially if you have too
many omega6 fatty acids, which is part
of the seed oils. I have a free download
that I want to give to you. This free
download is my daily routine and a
checklist. This is a routine that I use
every day to feel like I'm 18 years old
even though I'm 60 years old. And I want
to give it to you for free. And so
there's a little link down below. Click
it and definitely download that. I want
to give you something very practical
that you can do right now to fully fix
this problem. Okay? And I created a
video to show you how to get rid of all
of these right here. And it primarily
focuses on correcting what you eat as
well as the timing of when you eat. And
for that information, I highly recommend
you watch this video right here, right
now.
