Today we're going to talk about seven
foods that have zero sugar and zero
carbohydrates. It is true that most of
your foods that you're eating are
probably loaded with carbs. Carbs have
been responsible for most chronic
disease. An average person in the US
consumes 67% of all their calories from
carbohydrates. It's one of the fuels
that feeds cancer. It's important to
know what a carb is and what foods have
it and what foods don't. I think the
best way to start this out is to really
simplify carbohydrates because people
get confused. There are three types of
carbohydrates. We have a sugar
carbohydrate, another type of
carbohydrate called fiber. The thing
about fiber is the fiber doesn't raise
the insulin level. It doesn't raise your
blood sugar. So, the real problem with
chronic disease isn't necessarily the
fiber. It's the sugar and something
else. It's actually this right here,
starch. This is the thing that a lot of
people don't understand can be even
worse than sugar because most people are
consuming refined starch. They add a
bunch of stuff in there. They might add
bleach to it to take out the color and
other preservatives because it's now
more exposed to air. They have to
preserve it. But there's actually three
main bad things in the grains. Gluten,
that's the protein part. Our bodies
don't digest gluten. In fact, it's one
of the only proteins that our bodies
can't digest. Of course, you have the
starch itself and sugar. The next point
I want to bring up is the brain. You'll
hear this all the time that your brain
needs sugar because your brain could
only run on glucose. Well, if that was
the case, we would all be dead long ago.
How do you explain all the carnivore
people who seem to be doing very fine?
They don't have very many problems. In
fact, they're getting rid of a lot of
problems. Yes, your brain can run on
glucose, but it can also run on ketones
that come from fat. There is no such
thing as an essential carbohydrate. We
can survive without carbohydrates. Why?
Because our bodies can run on different
fuels. They can run on ketones and fat,
and they can run on glucose. What you
have to realize is that any glucose that
you need, your body can make it out of
non-carbohydrate sources. Now that we
got that out of the way, let's cover
these seven foods that have zero sugar
and zero carbs. Number one is fat. And
this would be any of the pure fats.
Butter, ghee, which is a version of
butter, cod liver oil, you have olive
oil, coconut oil. All of the fats had
zero carbohydrates, which means they
don't trigger that insulin spike.
Excessive insulin is behind most chronic
illness. Number two is any of the meats,
beef, pork, lamb, chicken, fish, all of
those proteins have virtually zero sugar
and carbohydrates. Any of the meat and
fat is going to be good to be able to
reverse the chronic illness. Number
three, organ meats. Liver is the most
common one. You see, organ meats and
meat are the most nutrient-dense foods
that you can possibly eat, and they're
virtually zero sugar and carbs. Number
four on the list is eggs. It's so close
to zero, we can even call it a zero, and
is never going to be a problem with you
consuming eggs and getting too much
sugar. There is zero sugar in the
whites, but most of the nutrition is in
the yolk. We're talking about the active
form of vitamin A. We're talking about
choline, B vitamins, the trace minerals,
and very important phytonutrients for
the eye. Super healthy to reverse
chronic disease. Number five, shellfish.
Shellfish have some carbs, okay? But
it's so small. And the benefit of
shellfish is huge. And I'm talking about
shellfish that are wild caught. It can
provide all the trace minerals in the
most bioavailable way like selenium,
which tends to counter mercury.
Shellfish is loaded with zinc. And zinc
is so important in increasing and
maintaining testosterone. And out of all
the shellfish, we have oysters at the
peak of all of those shellfish. Number
six, raw cheese. It's a really good
source of protein. It has a lot of other
nutrients in there. I always feel good
when I have raw cheese. Of course, if
you can find European cheese, that's
better. Sheep or goat cheese is even
better than some of the cow milk
cheeses. Raw cheese gives you the best
source of calcium. It's one of the best
sources of phosphorus. It is a really
good food to increase nutrients,
especially vitamin K2, which by the way
helps you keep calcium from building up
in the arteries and the soft tissues.
Number seven are certain types of
vegetables which have a tiny bit of
carbs. Any of these vegetables I'm going
to talk about will never ever ever ever
spike your blood sugar at all because
the fiber in there is going to buffer
any type of, you know, sugar that's in
there. It's just so tiny. Water crust,
mushrooms, spinach, and arugula have
just a tiny bit of carbs. That includes
lettuce, too. Swiss chard, bok choy,
kale, zucchini is another good one.
Celery, cucumbers. I love cauliflower.
You can bake it. You can cook it. You
can add butter to it. Add cheese to it.
You can make mashed cauliflower
delicious. Also, when you get into the
herbs like pepper and thyme and sage and
garlic, those are even tinier amounts so
you don't have to worry about them. I
just gave you the list of foods that if
you focused on those foods, you would
literally reverse diabetes, chronic
illness, because most illness is caused
by the consumption of too many refined
carbohydrates in the form of starches
and sugars. I have a free download that
I want to give to you. This free
download is my daily routine and a
checklist. This is a routine that I use
every day to feel like I'm 18 years old
even though I'm 60 years old. And I want
to give it to you for free. And so
there's a little link down below. Click
it and definitely download that. The
next most important thing you need to
understand is the data about seed oils.
And for that video you should watch. I
put it up right here. Check it out right
now.
