Today we're going to talk about a hidden
killer deadlier than the plague and you
may even have this infection. It's
extremely common. In fact, one in four
people have this bacterial infection and
many people don't even know that they
have it. It's a bacteria that killed
more people than the plague. The plague
killed 200 million people. If we take a
look at the accumulated people that this
bacteria killed, it's over 1 billion
people. And each year, this bacteria
kills just under 1.3 million people.
Yet, it's not even really in the news.
You don't hear much about it, even
though it is the world's deadliest
infectious disease, which kills more
people than HIV and malaria combined.
And the reason I'm bringing this up is
not just because it's very common. It
infects 25% of the population. That's
over 2 billion people on planet Earth.
If you were infected, you would need to
know this information. The somewhat good
news about this particular bacteria is
the great majority of this infection,
95% of it is in an inactive stage. It's
in a dormant latent stage. So only about
5% of this bacterial infection is in the
active stage. Despite that, there's over
a million people a year that die. It's
contagious. It affects the lung and it's
one of the oldest pathogens that has
evolved to persist or survive in your
body in a dormant state. And so actually
there's a group of microbes in your body
that can go in and out of remission and
they're called latent infections like
for example herpes and epistine bar
virus and cytogloirus and human
papilloma virus and hepatitis B or C are
all latent microbes. But the microbe
that I'm going to focus on today is TB
which is a microbe that gives you
tuberculosis. It doesn't actually evade
your immune system. It goes into your
immune system. It actually hides in the
macrofase. Now, what's a macroofage? The
macrofase is part of the immune cells
that actually attack TB and they clean
up bacteria and infection throughout the
body. So, as soon as it engulfves it, it
has certain enzymes to dissolve it, put
acid into it, kill it, and dismantle it.
But with TB, once the macrofase eats it,
TB has a certain defense mechanism to
block these powerful digestive enzymes.
And so TB has this protective shield
that it starts to build around it within
the macrofase. In fact, it doesn't even
kill this macroofage. What it does is it
hijacks its fuel source in its
mitochondria. And of course, to survive,
it stays in this dormant mode. and it
just waits, okay, until the timing is
right before it comes out and creates
damage. TB affects more people in the
northern hemisphere, okay, away from the
equator and more incidents in the winter
than the summer. And there's several
states or conditions that dramatically
bring that microbe into an active state.
If you have type two diabetes, if you
have HIV, which lowers the immune
barrier, when you get older, the immune
system gets weaker. And and this is the
most important thing, if your vitamin D
is very low, that inactive or what they
call latent bacteria go into an active
state and start creating damage. So, if
you didn't already guess it, vitamin D
actually is very low in the north
compared to areas of the equator because
of where the sun is. And also, of
course, in the winter months, you're
going to have a lot less vitamin D
because the sun is not in the location
that gives you that conversion. The
other interesting thing about TB is it
has a strategy of blocking the vitamin D
receptor. So the more the vitamin D
receptor is blocked, the less immune
power that you have. And as a survival
mechanism, TB knows that we need to
lower your immune system to be able to
persist in the body and survive. A
couple other very interesting things
about this. In the 80s, we had a swing
up of TB outbreaks. Now, what happened
in the 80s, they started to promote what
is called this sun phobia. these
campaigns to tell you to stay out of the
sun and wear sunscreen and sunblock
because the sun's very dangerous. That
was in the 80s. And I really believe
that change significantly reduced the
amount of vitamin D exposure that we got
from the sun. There's research that
shows that low vitamin D does increase
your mortality from TB and then other
research says it doesn't. So I started
to look at the studies and differentiate
what they actually did in the studies
and I found something very interesting.
the studies that they said that there's
no correlation between vitamin D and TB.
They were using monthly doses of vitamin
D3. In other words, you would just take
vitamin D every month, not every day.
You need way more than that 600 IUs that
they say that you need for the bone
health. You need at least 6,000 to
10,000 IUs, not once a month, but every
single day. Not to mention, there's
still no agreement on what normal
vitamin D is. Some references say that
as long as you have 20 nanogs per
milliliter, you have enough. Other
references say if you have 30 nanogs per
milliliter, you have enough. But they're
not really taking consideration all the
huge barriers that we have with vitamin
D. If you're obese or you're getting
older, you need more vitamin D. Also, if
you're trying to create a therapeutic
effect with vitamin D, you need doses
much much higher because these levels
that they're talking about are really
merely to prevent something like
ricketetts, which is really softening of
the bones in in children, which is very
very different than if you have an
immune problem or let's say you have an
inflammatory problem or autoimmune
disease. Those particular patients need
a much higher therapeutic dosage. or if
you have an infection like TB that
blocks your vitamin D receptors, you're
going to need a lot more than this to
actually penetrate the resistance. And
so depending on the condition of what's
going on with your health state that's
really going to determine what your
normal should be. So when they do the
studies, they're operating off of
completely outdated information. Another
really interesting thing, before the uh
development of antibiotics, people went
to sanatoriums. These were a place in
various resorts that was exposed to
sunlight where people could go to heal
from TB and they would use fresh air and
sun exposure. And there were some really
interesting statistics on that because
people going in roughly had an on
average of a 70% chance of having
mortality, but that went down to a 30 to
40% chance. But through the exposure to
sun, vitamin D and fresh air, there is a
dramatic significant improvement in that
infection. They also use cod liver oil.
Cod liver also showed a significant
benefit to patients with TB. So the
thing that kind of really struck me is
this is not really just about the
pathogen being exposed to this
infection. It's really your body's
resistant to the infection and how
vitamin D relates to that. Now your
immune system kills off TB with this
particular compound called cathalidin.
Catholicidan is a broadspectctrum
antimicrobial
that depends on vitamin D for its
function. And based on certain studies
when people had low vitamin D uh the
activation from the latent inactive
stage to the active stage went up by 5x.
So without vitamin D, you can't activate
this powerful weapon against TB. So
you're going to need a much higher
amount of vitamin D than the typical
RDAs that they recommend, which I think
is like 600 or 800, which is ridiculous.
The other really important thing I want
to emphasize is that it's not just the
vitamin D that's helping people against
infection. When we're dealing with the
sun, we're not just dealing with this
ultraviolet B conversion of vitamin D in
our skin. We're dealing with another
wave of energy called infrared. And the
infrared is not part of the visible
light spectrum. You can't see it. It's
invisible. But when you're next to a
candle or a fireplace, you can feel the
heat. You can feel infrared, but you
can't actually see it. So over 50% of
the sun is this infrared. And what's
really interesting about infrared in
relationship to TB is that infrared
reverses the mitochondrial damage.
Remember I talked about the TB and the
macrofeds. There's a lot of data that
shows that infrared can reverse that
hijacking effect and increase more
oxygen in the mitochondria and increase
something else called nitric oxide. All
of those things are weapons against TB.
And this is why infrared is used as a
therapy for so many different things.
For chronic fatigue syndrome, for
helping your sleep cycles, for building
up melatonin, not just for sleep, but
also as an antioxidant to protect you,
and it also helps increase vitamin D
signaling. And this is why the sun has
been such a great therapy for so long.
Our DNA, our cells, our body was
designed to get a lot of sun exposure.
And now we live under LED lights,
artificial lights. And just so you know,
LED lights are really only the visible
spectrum right here. You don't get any
infrared. So, we're getting this visible
spectrum, this light right here, which
is really heavy on the blue light, which
activates cortisol,
but no therapeutic protection against
some of that blue light. So, we don't
get any infrared. 93% of the population
spend most of their existence inside a
building, not outside, exposed to the
sun, which explains a lot about this
right here, and why so many people are
dying from this. They're just not
getting enough of the sun to activate
this here. And I'm not just talking
about TB. I'm talking about a lot of
other infections. And also, as a side
note, I'm sorry to tell you this, but
the LED lights, they have a rule that's
going to go into effect in 2028 where
they're going to mandate these LED
lights and make it almost impossible to
get the lights with the infrared
spectrum. Those lights that were
incandescent are kind of being phased
out because they're going for more
efficiency in bright light and they're
going to increase the intensity of this
narrow spectrum right here. And I can't
even imagine what's going to happen when
people are forced to use these lights
without the infrared and especially if
they're not going outside to get enough
sunlight. It's not going to be good.
It's also going to affect their sleep
cycles and it'll increase more cortisol
in their body and that can have cascade
effects to all sorts of other problems
if you're not sleeping and if you're
actually stressed out. This TB microbe
has evolved with our body for a very
long time and apparently we made an
agreement and we're tolerating that
microbe as long as it doesn't mess with
us. But still, there's over a million
people a year that die unnecessarily
because of several things that weaken
the immune system. So again, it's really
not about the pathogen. It's about the
environment. It's about the epigenetics,
the things that control your genes. Now,
since we're on the topic of light, there
is a fascinating discussion with a
doctor which is just a mind-blowing
interview on the benefits of light. And
we get in the topic of different
wavelengths and how it can affect your
body. If you haven't seen this video,
you got to check it out. I put it up
right here.
