This video is all about getting your
energy back. Getting your energy back
might require different things. I'm
going to cover all seven reasons why
someone is tired. To figure this out,
we're going to start with the most
important question. When did you start
becoming tired? What happened just
before this change? Let's go through the
seven reasons. The seventh one I'm going
to talk about is the absolute most
common and most important. Let's start
with number one, lack of sleep. Why
don't people sleep? Well, it could be
they're drinking alcohol. Alcohol might
make you tired, but it prevents you from
going into the deeper sleep. Another
reason why people don't sleep is they
overtrain. Too much exercise can stir up
more adrenaline and that can prevent
sleep. You can also have problem
sleeping if you eat too late. So, if you
have sleeping problems, the earlier you
eat in the day, it's going to help you
sleep. Consuming chocolate too late in
the day can increase something like
caffeine called theobo bromine, which
then can keep you up. Now, out of all
the supplements that help people sleep,
I would say magnesium should be at the
top of the list. that can help all of
your muscles relax. If you have any
spasms or tight muscles anywhere in your
body, magnesium is the answer. You want
to take magnesium glycinate 1 hour
before you go to bed. And then the other
nutrient is B1. If you are deficient in
B1, you're going to have restlessness, a
lot of excessive thinking, and the
reason why people are deficient in B1 is
usually they have too much stress or
they're consuming too many
carbohydrates. Since we're on the topic
of sleep, there's one really powerful
thing you can do. You just have to go
outside in the morning between 6 and
8:30 a.m. for 10 to 15 minutes only and
just look at the sunrise. And I'm not
talking about looking directly into the
sun, but if you just look in that
direction, it's super therapeutic.
There's a lot of other health benefits,
and a lot of people don't realize the
power of what that can do. Now, this
will not work if you're sitting inside
and there's a glass barrier. You have to
be outside. Number two, cellular
hypothyroidism. The thyroid hormones go
into every single cell in your body and
they control your metabolism, definitely
your energy. So, if the thyroid is not
working, you're not going to work. Your
energy is going to be absent. And a
certain percentage of that conversion
happens to the liver and the kidney. And
if the liver or the kidney is not
working that well, that could be the
reason. But there's something else way
more common that's missing in a lot of
individuals and that is selenium. And
the reason why this is even on my radar
is I live on a farm and I have cattle
and I have sheep and I talk to the vets
all the time. They tell me the stories
of how frequent it is for animals to
have all sorts of issues that is
directly related to a deficiency of
selenium in the soil. But the point is
if it's not in the soil, it's not in the
animals. The best sources of selenium,
Brazil nuts, sardines,
shellfish, grass-fed liver, and that's
about it. Number three, stress. There's
two different aspects of stress I want
to talk about. One is a severe stress as
a loss or some type of major stress
that's a shock to your system, in which
case your immune system actually shuts
down because of the spike of cortisol.
Cortisol suppresses your white blood
cells and this means that those viruses
that are in sleep mode. It's called a
latent virus, especially Epstein vio
virus, even herpes viruses. These are
viruses that are very common in people,
but you probably don't notice any
problems because they're in this dormant
stage. And they don't come out until you
are under stress. And I can't tell you
how many times someone came in my office
as a patient and had a major stress
event that led to the reactivation of an
Epstein bar virus giving them what's
called chronic fatigue syndrome. And no
one had any connection to that. But I
did because I asked the question when
did it start? What happened just before
this occurred? And if that's your
problem, all you need to do is take a
lot of vitamin D that put that thing
back in remission. Because one thing
about Epstein bar virus, herpes viruses,
and even lime, which is not a virus,
it's a bacteria. All of those and others
have a strategy of shutting down your
vitamin D receptors. So, all you need to
do is take more to override that. So,
you need to take something like 30 or
40,000 IUs of vitamin D3 to put the
virus back in remission to get your
energy back. And then you have um not in
a severe stress but just low stress it's
chronic and that can affect your sleep
that can make you tired. The best remedy
for high cortisol is eluteride. It's a
micro but you can make your own kind of
like a cultured yogurt from it. Another
way to reduce cortisol is by taking more
magnesium and sodium. Other things to
reduce cortisol are long walks
especially in the woods. There's a
certain kind of a vapor that comes off
these pine trees that can go in your
body and help calm you down, help
improve your immune system, help reduce
cortisol. So, long walks in the woods,
in nature, looking at birds, touching
leaves, being in that environment is
super healthy for your stress level.
Number four, histamine overload. There's
naturally an enzyme in your body to
break down histamine. But if you are
doing things to shut that enzyme down,
then your histamines go higher. What
would interfere with that enzyme? Well,
alcohol, medications, and gut damage
from gluten. But I need to also talk
about if you're sensitive to histamines,
then I would not be consuming a lot of
the following. aged cheese, vinegar,
yeah, even apple cider vinegar, canned
fish, fermented vegetables, even like
sauerkraut or kimchi. Just be aware if
you're consuming these foods and you get
tired, you could have a histamine
sensitivity. And the simple solution is
just to avoid them. Okay, let's move on
to number five. This involves blood
sugar. If you're consuming higher
amounts of carbs or sugar sometime
during the day, what's going to happen?
and your blood sugars will go up and
then come down and then kind of come up
and down like that, especially at night.
And this is why the person wakes up in
the middle of the night. Well, what's
that going to do to your energy during
the day? It's going to bring it down.
And all those carbs are going to be
depleting your B1, which is going to
cause restless leg syndrome, which also
wake you up. Number six, things that can
break your sleep. If you have things
that are causing sleep apneoa, that is
not necessarily just snoring. That is
oxygen deprivation of your brain which
people tend to wake up when they're not
getting enough oxygen. There's something
really interesting that was recently
discovered about sleep apnea and they
were using an MRI and they found the
base of the tongue was really fatty
which creates obstruction of air
pathways. How do you get rid of that? Do
you just cut the tongue out? No, you
don't do that. You have to lose weight
through the whole body and then the fat
on the tongue will also come down.
There's another reason why people have
sleep apnnea and it has to do with their
gut microbiome. If you start taking a
probiotic, you just might find that your
sleep apnea goes away. Taking probiotics
is a really simple solution to a very
major problem because wearing that mask
is just miserable. Some people find a
simple remedy for sleep apnea by taping
their mouth. So they it forces them to
breathe through the nose which will
increase something called nitric oxide.
That will release more oxygen. Just
realize that when you breathe through
your nose, you actually get more oxygen
into your lungs. Another reason why
people can't sleep is the room is too
warm. In order to get you into that deep
delta wave of sleep, your core
temperature has to come down just a
little bit. So, why not keep it a little
bit cooler in your room to help yourself
sleep? Now, on the flip side, you have
people that are too cold and they have
cold feet. A simple, simple, amazing
trick to help you with that is to warm
up some socks before bed, maybe in the
dryer, and put those warm, dry socks on.
In one study, they found that you can
increase the length of sleep by another
30 minutes just by wearing warm socks to
bed. And the last thing I want to talk
about sleep is getting up frequently to
urinate. Boy, there's nothing worse than
that for your energy during the day. So,
what causes that? Typically, it's just
too much snacking. You must reduce your
carbohydrates. And then number seven,
the most important way to get energy.
This thing will increase your energy,
especially in your brain, and that is
upping your protein. I'm talking about
quality protein like meat. If you're not
doing high quality protein, I can almost
guarantee that you are sucking wind and
you are tired. So, just try it. Up your
protein. Not with any protein, but it
has to be quality. And just with every
meal, add more quality protein. This
could be the most simple solution to
restore your energy. And all of the
things that I've talked about are things
that I am doing right now, and I can
tell you they do work. Please try them
and then comment down below if they work
for you.
