Let's talk about the 18 signs that your
body is deficient in key nutrients. The
mistake people make is they end up
treating the sign or the symptom and not
the underlying cause. But we're going to
talk about both. Starting with number
one, skin tags. These little skin tags
are benign, but they're indicators of
something deeper. This is a classic
blood sugar issue. It's either the
person is a pre-diabetic or they're an
actual diabetic. Best test is called
A1C, which gives you an average of blood
sugars for 3 months. If your A1C is
above 5.7,
that's pre-diabetes. You can actually
reverse diabetes by reducing your
carbohydrates like sugars and starches
and increasing highquality protein from
meat. Research indicates that you can
reverse type 2 diabetes in less than 10
weeks. Number two, itchy private parts
or you just itch somewhere in your body,
especially at night. you have too much
fungus overgrowing on the surface of
your skin. This usually comes from
either taking antibiotics or a person
that takes steroids because then you
wipe out the good bacteria that control
the fungus because fungus, candida, and
yeast love sugar. Guess what? You're
going to crave sugar. The best strategy
to get rid of it is to completely starve
these microorganisms. Just as a side
note to itchiness, vitamin D can greatly
help your immune system and also help
reduce itching. Number three, nighttime
restlessness. I'm talking about mainly
your legs called restless leg syndrome.
Feeling like they just can't relax,
burning, achiness. All of those symptoms
are symptoms of too much lactic acid
because you're missing a really key
nutrient called vitamin B1, thamine.
This is the nutrient that allows you to
burn up fuel and prevents the buildup of
lactic acid. Anytime you take B1, you
also need magnesium because that's a
helper mineral to make B1 work. What
causes a B1 deficiency? Too many
carbohydrates and sugars. As you see,
this is a common theme. Number four,
tingling, numbness in your toes or your
bottom of your foot. This is a nerve
problem. These nerve problems occur in
the ends of your extremities, your hands
and your feet. You see this a lot in
diabetics because in diabetes, you're
consuming too many carbs which deplete B
vitamins, specifically B1. To correct
this, you want to take a very specific
type of B1 called benotamine. I would
take just one four times a day and
you're going to see relief like you've
never seen before very quickly. Number
five, bleeding gums. That's a vitamin C
deficiency. If you take a look at an
advanced severe form of vitamin C, which
is called scurvy, one thing that blocks
the absorption of vitamin C is sugar.
Everything's kind of coming back to that
sugar. You need vitamin C to make
collagen to keep the capillaries really
nice and strong. But I wouldn't take the
synthetic form ascorbic acid. I would
take a whole food vitamin C complex or
consume foods high in vitamin C. Bell
pepper, kiwis, lemons, limes, things
like that. Number six,
chronic cough. This is usually a calcium
deficiency or acid coming up your
esophagus, reaching the throat around
the vocal cords. So, you have to be able
to differentiate the two. How do you do
that? If you have uh digestive issues or
maybe heartburn or it burns in your
esophagus, think more acid reflux in
which case you need to consume more
salt. You can take a remedy called
betane hydrochloride that fixes acid
reflux pretty quickly. If you don't have
digestive issues and this is just kind
of like a spasm and irritation, some
calcium would go a long way. I like to
get my calcium not from a supplement but
from a high quality cheese. So you can
try that. A lot of children that have
coughing need a little bit of calcium or
even if they have a fever, taking
calcium is the fastest way to get rid of
it. It really helps them. Number seven,
carpal tunnel syndrome. Pain or swelling
in your wrists. This is a vitamin B6
deficiency. B6 is needed to help reduce
swelling. It's also needed to make the
protection around the nerve. This is
probably why even like a lot of pregnant
women get carpal tunnel syndrome because
they run out of B6. They also become
nauseated. So you have the feeling of
nauseousness and carpal tunnel syndrome.
Think B6. The type of B6 that I would
recommend would be something called P5P.
Number eight, brittle nails. This is a
classic biotin deficiency. If you don't
have enough biotin, oh my gosh, the
nails just kind of break very easily.
Just take a little biotin to help that.
Number nine, if you run on the cold
side, especially your feet or hands, I
would recommend iodine in the form of
seek help. You can get iodine from
shellfish as well. Number 10, this
includes a lot of different problems
that occur in the early morning. Cramps
in your legs, migraine headaches, and
even chest pain as a potential heart
attack. These are all magnesium
deficiency symptoms. The big question is
why would it happen more in the early
morning? Well, that's because magnesium
is on a circadian wave or rhythm and the
lowest point with magnesium occurs in
the early morning. The real simple
solution is to take magnesium glycinate
before you go to sleep. It'll help you
sleep. Number 11, ulcers or gastritis.
Think zinc deficiency. And the best form
of zinc for this condition is zinc
carnosine. This type of zinc helps heal
wounds. Next one is a nose bleed. This
can happen if you have high blood
pressure, but it can also happen if
you're deficient in vitamin K1 because
vitamin K1 is all about preventing
bleeding. It helps you clot, but also a
vitamin C deficiency can create a
bleeding nose as well. Next one is chest
pain or pain down the left arm or pain
in the left shoulder that's related to
the heart. This usually is a vitamin E
deficiency. If you look at literally
every single mountain peak where you
have mountain climbers, you'll find
empty bottles of vitamin E. The vitamin
E deficiency will lower your oxygen
carrying capacity, especially in the
heart. Also, it allows you to breathe
better in high altitudes. The best
vitamin E to take if you have those
symptoms, would be something called
toatrinals. Number 14, those little
raised little bumps in the back of your
arms. This is a classic vitamin A
deficiency called retinol. And you can
only find that in animal products. It's
in liver, it's in egg yolks, it's in
cheese, but you're not going to be able
to correct this by eating more carrots
or spinach with the so-called uh vitamin
A. Cod liver oil will give you vitamin A
as well. 15. If you're deficient in
sodium, you're going to feel fatigued.
You're going to have insomnia, and
you're also going to have weak muscles.
If you have any of those symptoms, just
up your salt and it works like magic.
16. Decrease libido is a classic zinc
deficiency. I would recommend taking 50
mg maybe a few times a day. And once
your low libido is handled, then you can
start reducing it from there. Next one
is dry, scaly skin. This means the
person has too much omega6 fats and not
enough omega-3 fats. They're consuming a
lot of seed oils, but not enough fish
oils. Some of the best source of omega-3
is from cod liver oil or fish oil or
sardines, salmon, get it while caught.
Number 18, the little white dots on your
nail. That's a classic zinc deficiency.
One of the key things that deplete zinc
is sugar. I think I've talked about that
before. If you want to correct this, you
have to also correct your diet as well
or it's going to keep coming back. Now
that you know the cause effect
relationship between deficiencies and
symptoms, I think I would do you a
disservice if I didn't tell you what to
actually eat to prevent and avoid all of
these symptoms in the first place, which
is kind of important. The absolute best
video to learn how to eat correctly and
satisfy nutritional deficiencies is this
video right here. Check it out right
now.
