You're about to learn the number one
healthiest food on planet Earth. If you
can guess what it is, please comment
down below. I'm very curious what you
think this is. There is a food on this
planet that does something that no
supplement, no superfood can come even
close to matching and what this thing
can do. And it doesn't just feed the
person. It teaches the immune system. It
has the ability to train your gut
microbiome. And it actually has the
ability to adapt and change depending on
what's happening in your environment.
Nothing else we eat even comes close to
this. It contains immune cells, hormones
that have the ability to adapt from
morning to night. It also contains stem
cells which is next level. So the number
one healthiest food on planet Earth is
human breast milk. And this is why it's
so vital that a new mother chooses
breast milk over infant formula. Now, I
know a lot of you watching are not a
baby, but I am going to share with you
the next best food to consume if you're
an adult. And so, this video is going to
apply to your health. But I needed to
give you a foundation on the importance
of breast milk and what it actually does
to our bodies if you were fortunate
enough to have breast milk when you're a
baby. Because when I did a deep dive
into this topic, I was just blown away
at what actually breast milk is. It is a
super immune builder. Half of the
mother's immune system called the innate
immune system is given to that infant
partially through breast milk. I mean,
just think about that for a second. You
have the innate immune system that
you're born with or your mother gives
you. And then you have over here the
acquired immune system that you have to
develop through getting sick and then
having your body recover because your
body will learn when it goes through
that infection process. So those of you
that were fortunate enough to actually
go through breastfeeding have a much
stronger immune system. You have a much
less chance of getting autoimmune
diseases, allergies, because your immune
system is stronger. In breast milk, you
have certain proteins that heal the gut
wall. Breast milk has certain sugars
that are not digestible by the baby.
They selectively feed not the baby but
microbes and they're highly protective
against inflammation. Modern foods,
especially infant formula, can't even
get close to the benefits of breast
milk. Another thing is something called
colostrum. You can look at colostrum
like a newborn starter kit. It protects
the immune system big time. Even if
you're an adult and you take colostrum,
it can greatly support the gut barrier
to prevent against leaky gut. And so,
let's talk about this infant formula
because infant formula is the first
ultrarocessed food that a child is
exposed to. It's basically junk food.
And that's my opinion. Yes, infant
formula may keep the child alive, but
from my viewpoint, it does nothing to
build the health of that child. And even
if you look up the definition of food in
the dictionary, that which is eaten to
sustain life, provide growth and repair
of tissues. Formula doesn't even fit
that definition. Infant formula is more
of a delivery system to hit certain
numbers, calories, proteins, vitamins.
Of course, they're synthetic. An infant
formula does not consider the quality of
those calories, those proteins, those
nutrients. Now, in the news recently,
maybe you've heard of RFK and HHS
looking closely at infant formula.
They're looking at the heavy metals in
infant formulas because some of the
ingredients in infant formula are like
sponges for heavy metals, which is
devastating for a newborn, especially
their brain development. Consumer
Reports tested 41 different infant
formulas and they found heavy metals in
a lot of these and it varied greatly. So
this is one reason RFK through HHS is
evaluating these heavy metals. Formula
is basically a chemistry project, not a
food. It usually has industrial seed
oils, refined sugars, synthetic
vitamins, and then processed protein.
Sometimes it's like soy protein.
Unfortunately, but all of this is
labeled through a loophole complete
nutrition. So, I just compared breast
milk to infant formula. And so, now the
question is, as an adult, what would be
a comparable product that you can
consume? Would it be milk? And the
answer is no for a couple reasons. First
of all, most milk that you consume is
pasteurized because you have to go way
out of your way to find raw milk. And
despite what they say about raw milk,
realize when they pasteurize milk, it's
dead. Okay? They kill everything in it.
Destroying enzymes, immune factors, it's
altering fat membranes. So, what is the
next best thing? Fermented dairy. Let me
explain that. Okay. Kefir, raw milk,
cheese, and also yogurt. But for yogurt
and kefir, what they might do is they
might pasteurize it first and then
ferment it with bacteria. Let me tell
you what's so amazing about fermented
dairy. When you do the fermentation
process in which you're adding bacteria,
there's all sorts of additional things
that are created that were not there
originally. And so even the protein in
dairy is broken down into smaller
proteins that are very easy to digest.
There are things in fermented dairy that
actually help your immune system stop
overreacting. There are vitamins in
fermented dairy like vitamin K2 that are
created from the microbes. Now think
about that for a second. These microbes
are little machines or factories that
make all sorts of additional things for
you and exchanges. You're giving them
certain things like lactose to eat and
then they give you these amazing
benefits like even vitamin K2. It helps
remove the calcium from soft tissues,
from your joints, from the arteries, and
it pushes that calcium into your bones
and your teeth. Now, the other thing is
that most adults have a problem with
lactose. They can't digest lactose. We
don't have the enzymes. Well, it just so
happens that when you ferment dairy,
you're letting the microbes eat up that
lactose. So, the amount of lactose is
much less when you have fermented dairy.
The minerals in dairy are much easier to
absorb than just regular milk. And I'm
talking about calcium. In other words,
these microbes kind of condition the
minerals to make them very easy to go in
our bodies. You're getting a probiotic.
There's beneficial bacteria that not
only help to recede our guts, but they
also help to change the environment in
our guts. So certain microbes that were
dormant can come back to life. It
creates nutrients, vitamin B2, B12,
folate, biotin. There are a lot of
things in fermented dairy that help
modulate or regulate your immune system.
Fermentation also increases something
called the T-reg cells which prevents an
immune over reaction. And this is why
almost every single ancient culture had
some form of fermented dairy. I'm
talking for thousands of years. It's
been around. I consume fermented dairy
on a daily basis. I consume kefir. I
consume raw milk cheese every single
day. I also consume Bulgarian yogurt.
And if you're in Europe, you have a huge
advantage because nearly all the cheese
is raw. In America, you have to really
hunt and peck for it because it's not as
available. But in America, there's
always places that you can go to get
European cheeses, which I consume a lot
of. And this is not just because I'm
from Wisconsin. It's because I feel
better when I consume raw milk cheese.
Now, do I consume raw milk? I am not
against it. I know a lot of people that
love it. I personally cannot consume it
because of the lactose. So, with
fermented dairy, you're putting a lot of
attention on supporting your microbiome.
And if you make them happy, they're
going to make you very happy. So,
fermented dairy is the closest thing
adults have to breast milk. Now, since
we're on the topic of fermentation,
there is an amazing video on how you can
take a micro L rutery and turn it into a
cultured yogurt product that can take
your health to the next level. And for
that information, watch this video right
here.
