the one omega-3 that rebuilds your brain
and it's not fish oil. For over 200
years, doctors use another type of
omega-3 for conditions like
tuberculosis, ricketetts, which is a
disease in children where their bones
become very very soft. They use it for
deadly infections and even wound
healing. So, what was this omega-3 that
they used for a very long time? Cod
liver oil. If you look in one of these
older medical books from 1926, this is
the United States dispensary, 75% of the
remedies that were used back in 1926
were natural. And a very popular remedy,
and this was before antibiotics was
codif
that it has omega-3, and not just that
it's loaded with vitamin A and vitamin
D, whereas fish oil does not have those
two vitamins. So, let's go through the
seven unique benefits. Number one, cod
liver oil matches the brain. What do I
mean by that? If we dissect the key
omega-3 fatty acids in cod liver oil, we
have DHA and then we have EPA. Those
ratios in civer oil are very close to
your brain's omega-3 fatty acids. And
fish oil has a completely different
ratio. Normal processed fish oil that
you would buy at the store is really
heavy in EPA and very low in DHA. Yes,
it might help you with inflammation, but
cod liver oil is much much better for
your brain, for your eye, for your
mitochondria and the immune system.
Simply from the viewpoint of this ratio,
heavy DHA. What is DHA? DHA is one of
the really important structural fats of
your brain. A good portion of your brain
is made from DHA. It incorporates or
fuses into the membranes. They allow the
nervous system to work, the brain cells
to communicate. They allow the energy
factory, the mitochondria, to have this
membrane so it can make energy. So the
DHA in cive oil helps the structural
integrity of your brain, the eye, the
immune system, as well as the
mitochondria. All right, now let's get
into number two. This is pretty wild.
Alkal glycerol. It's something in cod
liver oil that is not in fish oil. That
is probably why it helped people with TB
and get over infections and even wound
healing way back in the day. It's
naturally present in your bone marrow.
It's naturally in breast milk. And I
look at it as this X factor for your
immune system because it helps to
regulate the immune system. It helps to
make more antibodies and so you can
fight infections. It also is important
in making immune cells. Now let's move
to number three. I'm talking about seed
oils that compete with the key fats in
cod liver oil as well as in fish oil.
Seed oils are omega6. Cod liver oil has
omega3.
Seed oils tend to be more
pro-inflammatory
and cod liver oil and fish oil are more
anti-inflammatory. The omega6 and the
omega-3 compete. Now, why is that
significant? Well, number one, an
average American consumes between 20 to
25%
of all of their calories from seed oils.
And so that's a tremendous amount of
omega-6 fatty acids that are going in
our bodies. So the big question is where
is it going and what is it doing in our
bodies? Are we burning it as fuel? No.
No, we're not. It's being incorporated
into our membranes of the brain of the
mitochondria of our retina of our immune
system and it kind of goes in there and
it gets stuck there for a long period of
time sometimes up to 600 days. So I did
some more research into this structural
fat DHA as well as what happens when you
don't have enough DHA and you have too
much seed oil. What happens at least in
animal studies is that our bodies have a
plan B. The plan B is for our body to
convert some of these seed oils to
another type of fatty acid called osbon
acid. And so then this fatty acid acts
like DHA. The problem is it doesn't even
come close to all the benefits that DHA
gives you, the ability for your neurons
to work, so you can have memory and
cognitive function. And so you can go
out and get a test on this fatty acid to
see if this is very high. But the
problem is there's not a lot of human
adult studies on this particular acid. A
much better test to determine what's
going on deep in your cells. It's called
RBC, red blood cell linoleic acid
percentage. That test will be really
great to tell you how many seed oils are
kind of locked in your body. And I would
also recommend getting an RBC, red blood
cell DHA percentage test, because that's
going to tell you if you have the good
fat in your cells. You might be able to
find a home test that you can actually
take a blood spot and then send it in.
I'm not sure. But with number three, we
have two problems. Number one, most
people don't consume enough omega-3
fatty acids. Number two, they're
consuming too many of the wrong fats,
these right here, that then block the
absorption of the good fats. Let's go to
number four, cardio liipin. And
basically, it just helps you make
energy. But guess what? Cardiolipin is
dependent on DHA. And if you don't have
DHA, then this battery leaks. Okay? So,
we have a leaky battery. It can't make
energy. You start getting tired. You
start having problems with your
mitochondria. Now, let's roll right into
number five. co-enzyme Q10. You probably
heard of that before. That's good for
the heart, right? Civer oil also has
another thing called phospholipids,
which also help this mitochondrial
battery. Number four and five are
necessary building blocks to help you
make more energy because they're very
key essentials in the mitochondria. And
so this is another reason why fish oil
can't even come close to what cod liver
oil can do because one really amazing
thing about cod liver oil is that over
time it's going to help you get more
energy especially if you stop consuming
seed oils so you can start to replace
the seed oils which by the way do take a
couple years to completely get those out
of the system. Number six your gut
immune system. I'm talking about the gut
lining. There are certain things in cod
liver oil that can help prevent leaky
gut. And one of these is vitamin A. And
one really interesting thing about
vitamin A is it's great for healing the
internal skin of the body, the inside of
the stomach, the inside of the
intestines. And also vitamin A is really
important in your immune system. Now
number seven is vitamin D. And I haven't
touched on this, but it's a really
important factor, especially if you look
in the past and why they use cod liver
oil and sunshine for ricketetts, which
is a condition in children where their
bones become very very soft. So they
would give these kids cod liver oil and
sunshine. And then they eventually
isolated it was vitamin D. Back then
they didn't even know it was vitamin D.
Vitamin D is super important in the
immune system. It's also important in
structural calcium for your bones. But
cod liver oil doesn't just have vitamin
D. It also has vitamin K2, which by the
way is really important. Anytime you
take vitamin D3, you want to take K2
because it protects you from developing
too much calcium in the wrong place,
preventing calcium in the joints, in
your kidneys, or even in the arteries,
right? It kind of keeps it out of there.
So, this is really interesting that
nature provides both of these key
nutrients in one package from actual
liver that you can eat. And by the way,
probably once or twice a week, I will
consume cod liver in a can. It's wild
caught. You can buy it anywhere. It's
actually quite delicious. Some people
don't like it, but you have to try it at
least once. It comes in these little
cans similar to sardines, and you open
it up. And I would not drink the juice
out of it. Even though it's pure cod
liver oil, it's a lot of oil and you
don't want to have it sit in your
digestive system and irritate your
gallbladder. So, if you just eat the cod
liver itself, you'll get all of the
nutrients that I just talked about and a
tremendous amount of omega-3 fatty
acids. Personally, I will do that once
or twice a week and I will also take cod
liver oil as a supplement. But I think
the reason why cod liver oil works so
well back in the day was not just
because the omega-3, not just because
the vitamin D, but I think it was all
these other things that really take your
immune system to the next level. Now,
before you go, I have a onepage download
of my daily routine, which I've been
working on this daily routine for
literally probably two decades, just
refining it. And I want to give it to
you as a free download. I put a link
down below. So, all you do is you click
the link, print it out, put it on your
refrigerator, and follow this daily
routine as a checklist. And after you do
that, I really want you to watch a
fascinating video that will help you
understand more on this DHA and EPA
topic. And I put that video up right
here. Check it out.
