Let's talk about the number one herb to
avoid if you have high blood pressure.
This could be dangerous if you don't
know about it. Before I write it down,
can you guess what it is? If you consume
too much of it, which a lot of people
do, you will start holding sodium like
crazy and you will also release a lot of
potassium. Your blood pressure might go
up and you also might get muscle cramps
and arhythmias because your electrolytes
are not there to be able to counter what
you need for the heart. All right, let
me reveal what I'm talking about.
Licorice, you know, it's a common thing
that people consume. They consume it in
a tea, they consume it as candy, but
most people take licorice root for their
adrenals, especially if they're going
through stress. So, your body has a
built-in safety enzyme to protect you
from producing too much cortisol. That's
the stress hormone. And it's a safety
enzyme, which is right here, 11BHSD2.
Not that you needed to know the name of
it, but this is a safety enzyme to
protect you from raising too much
cortisol because that could be
dangerous. Too much cortisol will cause
you to retain sodium, get rid of your
potassium, increase your blood pressure,
cause muscle cramps, and create heart
arrhythmia issues. And it just so
happens that licorice blocks this enzyme
because the active compound in licorice
is this right here, glycerisin. So when
your body no longer has this safety
enzyme, cortisol starts going up. So to
make this simple, if you consume too
much licorice, it's going to trick your
body into doing all these things right
here. Now, our bodies were designed to
retain sodium because way back in the
day, there wasn't a lot of sodium
around. There was probably way more
potassium foods than sodium. And so I
think one of the reasons why this
compound is in licorice is just to help
us survive in the past by retaining more
sodium. But today we get a lot of sodium
from junk foods, right? But we rarely
get enough potassium and that's really
the big problem. Let's just talk about
potassium for a second. There are
reports that show that 98% of the
population just does not get enough
potassium. That's literally almost 100%.
Because we need 4,700 milligrams. What
does potassium do? It's a key
electrolyte for the heart. It helps us
generate energy in our nerves and our
muscles. It also greatly helps protect
you against blood sugar issues. It helps
you store glycogen in your liver. And so
the potassium issue is not uncommon. And
the problem is by taking too much
licorice or licorice tea or the candy,
boy, you go from deficiency to severe
deficiency. And if you don't have enough
potassium, that can put a big problem on
your heart, especially with arhythmias.
So people get licorice from candy. A lot
of kids have it. A lot of other people
have licorice tea or they have licorice
supplements or they get it in capsules
and they're taking them on a daily
basis. I do not recommend that,
especially if you're older, especially
if you have high blood pressure,
especially if you're on a diuretic. And
even more than that, especially if
you're taking a synthetic version of
cortisol like predinazone and you take
licorice, that is not good at all. Now,
for some people that have low cortisol,
maybe a little more licorice might be
good, but I think they should be
supervised by someone who knows about
that. But it's pretty wild because so
many people are trying to get healthier
with things like licorice and they don't
really look at all the different
factors. So, how much licorice tea would
be too much? If you consume over two
cups of licorice tea every single day,
that could be enough to start shifting
the electrolyte balance. Okay? Or if
you're eating 100 milligrams of licorice
candy a day over two weeks, that could
be a problem even to the point where you
can actually end up in the hospital. The
real danger is not one dose. It's the
chronic lowd dose exposure that builds
up in the body. And it's interesting
because in this medical book, which was
written in 1926,
guess what? One of the remedies was
licorice. So licorice has been used for
a long time for over 3,000 years for all
sorts of things like ulcers, coughing,
inflammation, infections. So it's stood
the test of time and a lot of people
have gotten a lot of benefit from it.
But just realize it's very very
powerful. It's not completely safe for
every single person. Now there is a
certain type of licorice that extracted
this compound so that way you won't get
this effect with this enzyme. that won't
mess with this enzyme called DG L. So
basically just take this thing out and
you're getting the benefits of licorice
without this thing that can create
problems. So this is just one thing you
should put on your radar if you're going
to take licorice. Get the one that is a
DGL licorice. Okay? And that way it
won't create these effects right here.
That way you can get the gut effects if
you have an ulcer. you can get the
positive immune effects without pulling
all the potassium out and creating
problems with your electrolytes,
especially if you're going to use it
long term. I mean, licorice is
interesting because it could mimic the
signs of adrenal tumors and hormone
disorders because it can create this
thing right here. It's called pseudo
eldoststerone, which basically it's kind
of a false increase of eldoststerone
coming from this. It's not coming from a
tumor. And so it's something that
doctors would look at and this is why
it's important if you're at the doctor
to let them know, you know, everything
you're doing if you're taking licorice
because that could be the cause and if
they don't have that data, they can
misdiagnose you. The good news is that
if you have some of these symptoms from
taking licorice, you can just stop
taking it. The symptoms will reverse
usually. And so I am talking about some
of the dangers with herbs, but generally
speaking, most herbs are super
beneficial and many of the complications
from herbs are extremely rare,
especially if you compare them to
medications. And I'm really in support
of the therapies they used to use back
in the day. But unfortunately, the
recommendations of natural things from
doctors are close to zero. I have a free
download that I want to give to you.
This free download is my daily routine
in a checklist. This is a routine that I
use every day to feel like I'm 18 years
old even though I'm 60 years old. And I
want to give it to you for free. And so
there's a little link down below. Click
it and definitely download that. Since
we're talking about herbs, there's some
really simple herbs that you can use in
the kitchen to improve your health. And
for that information, you should watch
this video right here. Check it out.
