Dr. Bur here. Today we're going to talk
about how to avoid making mistakes with
your blood sugar. So, I have 13 common
mistakes that people make when they're
testing their blood sugar. So, we're
going to clear that up. I'm going to
also give you some basic very important
information about blood sugar. If you
are heading toward diabetes or you have
it, and if you have diabetes, I'm also
going to show you how to reverse it. The
first thing I want to talk about related
to blood sugars is what is normal. In
all of your blood, you should only have
one little teaspoon of sugar. So, our
body very tightly controls how much
sugar we have in our blood at one time.
It does not like too much sugar. When
you get into pre-diabetes,
it's one and a half teaspoons of sugar.
When you get into a full-blown diabetic
state, it's only two little teaspoons of
sugar. That's what diabetes is. That's a
crazy small amount. You probably thought
it was a lot more. But then the question
is going to come up, don't people
consume a lot more than that? Yes, they
do. An average person consumes between
50 to over aundred teaspoons of sugar
every single day if you include the
hidden sugars from starch. So starch is
hidden sugar. How does one consume so
much sugar yet if they're a diabetic
only have like a couple teaspoons of
sugar show up in their blood? Well,
that's because there's something behind
the scenes sucking it out like a vacuum
cleaner and that is called insulin. So
insulin works really hard to bring the
sugars down and it's taking all this
sugar and putting it into different
parts of the body and sometimes it
converts it into fat. Sometimes it
converts into stored sugar in the liver
or the muscles. Doctors are focused on
blood sugars. They don't really test for
insulin too much. They should because if
they did test for that, they would find
it's like off the charts with the amount
of sugar that an average person
consumes.
But what happens if you don't eat any
sugar at all? Would your normal blood
sugar still be one teaspoon? And the
answer is yes, it will. Because your
body needs a small amount of sugar, just
a tiny bit to survive. as you can see,
one teaspoon. So, it's going to just
make the sugar. The liver is going to
make this extra sugar and it can make it
out of pretty much anything. We don't
actually need sugar. The problem is we
consume too much and now we can't get
all that sugar out of the blood and then
it starts going a little bit higher and
a little bit higher and that's what we
call type 2 diabetes. And in that
process, you should just know about this
other thing called insulin resistance
because the body also does not like too
much insulin. So what happens in
different tissues, you start developing
this resistance to insulin. It starts
with too much carbohydrate and sugar and
snacking. Another thing you should know
about is we need insulin to be able to
pull in the glucose, but with insulin
resistance, the body is going to have a
difficult time pulling in the glucose.
And this really is the problem with a
lot of chronic disease and even dementia
and Alzheimer's. They call it type 3
diabetes of the brain. Why? Because
you've consumed too much carbohydrate
for too long. Another little interesting
thing about that, when someone becomes a
diabetic,
80% of the sugar in their blood is
actually created or made by the liver.
It's not coming from the diet. Only 20%
comes from the diet, but most of it is
coming from the liver. Now, why would
the liver be making that much sugar?
It's because all the messages all
screwed up. It thinks it's not getting
enough glucose, so it has to then make a
lot of it. And this is why metformin is
prescribed which indirectly lowers the
blood sugar by telling the liver to stop
making sugar. That's how that works.
When you go to the doctor, they screen
for your blood sugar and eventually they
say you're a diabetic and now we have to
treat you. So in other words, they're
going to wait until finally things are
dysfunctional and then they'll treat you
and they'll treat you with medication.
They don't put a lot of emphasis on diet
or telling you to lower your carbs
because 95% of doctors disagree with
going on a low carb diet and they think
it's dangerous mainly because of
propaganda in media that's pushing it
out there. But instead, you're given a
medication to manage that blood sugar.
And then you're also sometimes told if
your blood sugars go too low to have
this glucose tablet or pill or eat some
candy to raise the blood sugar. So some
doctors are more concerned with a low
blood sugar situation than a high blood
sugar situation. So it's all about
managing that biomarker.
It's not about reversing. Also
hypoglycemia typically is about 70
milligrams per deciliter. Okay? Like
normal is 80 and then 70 is considered
hypoglycemia. So if a diabetic has a
blood sugar of 90, they might be
experiencing the symptoms of
hypoglycemia.
Yet other people that are normal, like
that might be even a little too high for
them or that might be normal for them.
And they consider normal between 80 and
100. Personally, I think it should be 80
and then when you go on a low carb diet,
that 80 will go down to a 70 and that'll
be your normal or even 60 and I've even
seen it even lower than that. And
there's no hypoglycemic symptoms at all
because if you train your body not to
live on carbohydrates and you can live
on fat and ketones, your body won't
depend on all this extra sugar. So,
let's go through a couple points with
this. Number one, not washing your hands
before you check your blood sugar. Let's
say, for example, you're eating some
fruit and you cut some fruit and you get
some juice on your fingers and that
mixes with the blood sugar. that can
easily alter it. It's called
pseudohypoglycemia.
It's really important to wash your hands
with soap and water and let them dry and
then you know test your ring finger or
your index finger. Number two, let's say
you use alcohol wipes and you wipe your
finger but the alcohol is still wet and
you test it. That can create a
difference between 10 and 40 points
going up. So that can give you a false
number. So wait at least 30 seconds for
the alcohol to fully dry. And the other
point I want to make is sometimes
alcohol wipes had added glycerin which
can also alter your blood sugar. So I
would use the ones that don't have
glycerin because glycerin is kind of
sweet. Number three, do not use expired
strips because you don't know if they
still work and that can make your
readings incorrect. Number four, if you
experienced a sauna, something really
hot, or a cold plunge, both of those
scenarios can alter your readings by up
to 30 points, either going up or going
down. So, you want to keep the strips in
a kind of a good temperature and keep
your body in a a good normal
temperature. Uh, what about Tylenol?
Yeah, that can increase your blood
sugars if you're taking Tylenol right
before you test yourself. or even
vitamin C can alter the blood sugar
going up by 30 to 50 points. If you're
testing your blood sugar like in the
morning in a fasting state, don't take
any vitamins before you test it. Just
don't even drink any coffee, which I'm
going to cover in a little bit, because
that can majorly affect it. Also, if
you're squeezing or milking your finger,
you're also squeezing the interstitial
fluid and mixing that with the blood
sugars, diluting the blood sugar, and
that can alter your blood sugars by
dropping by up to 30 points. You just
want to very gently have that blood drop
and then have it sucked into that little
tester to test your blood sugar. Number
eight, using different fingers can give
you an alteration in your reading. I
would use your middle finger and your
ring finger. I wouldn't use the other
fingers unless you absolutely had to
because that can vary the results. Now,
what about number nine? You're using a
continuous glucose meter. Okay. Versus a
finger prick. The continuous glucose
meters measure things differently.
They're measuring the interstitial
fluid. So, they're measuring your blood
sugars indirectly. So, if you're testing
your blood sugar after a meal, you're
going to see a delayed reaction versus
the finger prick. So you just need to
know that and wait longer after a meal.
If you are doing a postmeal test, you
want to wait 1 to two hours, not before,
not after. You have 1 to two hours and
then do that consistently if you're
monitoring your blood sugar. Also, if
you are sleeping on that continuous
glucose monitor and there's a lot of
pressure on there and then you test it
in the morning, that could affect the
reading as well. Also, if you're testing
in high altitudes, like if you're at
10,000 ft, your readings are going to be
off because there's less oxygen. Number
11, I already mentioned coffee. Coffee
has caffeine. Caffeine
can actually increase adrenaline and
cortisol, which could indirectly cause
your body to make more sugar by up to 20
points. And this is just an extra point
I want to bring up. Stress can activate
blood sugars.
The hormone involved with stress is
cortisol. Another name for cortisol is
glucocorticoids
because it's a hormone that regulates
and releases excess glucose. So, I just
wanted to point that out as well. Number
12, when you check your blood sugar in a
fasting morning state and it's high, but
you didn't eat anything for the last 12
hours, like, wait a second, how can that
be? That's called the dawn phenomena,
okay? where you wake up in the morning
and the blood sugar's high. Now, what
happens at 8 o'clock in the morning is
and it could be at 7, it could be even
at six or it could be nine is you do
have a spike of cortisol like I just
talked about that. So, you have the
highest spike of cortisol at that time.
So, that could release it. But more than
that, it's a problem with insulin
resistance in your liver and your liver
is just making more sugar. It's like a
sugar factory. And so in the morning,
it's going to be high if you have
insulin resistance. So I'm going to show
you how to reverse diabetes and also fix
that. But the point is sometimes in the
process it could take some time. It
could take some months. It will improve
over time. But the point is that you're
just if you see high blood glucose in
the morning,
just realize that's insulin resistance
of the liver. And number 13, dehydration
can alter blood sugar by 10 to 15
points. Dehydration
occurs not just with a lack of water,
also a lack of electrolytes, too,
including salt, potassium, magnesium.
So, just make sure that you're hydrated
when you test your blood sugar. A1C is
another test they do to measure the
average of three months. So, we're not
necessarily going to look at the spikes
and the ups and downs. We're going to
look at the average of how much sugar is
stuck to your hemoglobin. What's
interesting about A1C is you have
different cultures like Asians,
African-American,
Hispanic versus Caucasian blood cells
are going to be a little different. With
Caucasian red blood cells, their red
blood cells die a little bit sooner than
people of Asian descent or
African-American or Hispanic. So, in
other words, if you're Asian,
African-American, or Hispanic, and your
A1C is just a little bit more than
someone else that's Caucasian, that
actually could be normal. Okay? I just
want to bring that out. Also, if you're
anemic, that can also alter this A1C. If
you've been on the low carb ketogenic
diet for a period of time, the red blood
cells will live a little longer, and
that will also alter this as well. So,
you have to kind of take in
consideration all these factors. Let's
talk about reversing type 2 diabetes.
It's actually from my viewpoint, it's
incredibly easy. It does take some time,
but the thing about diabetes is that the
liver is at the core of this problem
because all this extra glucose that's
made by the liver then turns into fat in
different places in the body, including
the liver. So now we have this liver
that becomes fatty, insulin resistant,
and dysfunctional. The good thing about
this whole problem is that the liver
responds really fast when you do low
carb. The lower the carbohydrates in
your diet, the faster the liver will
respond by getting rid of fat off the
liver and by correcting this insulin
resistance. And with a low carb diet,
within weeks, you can take off at least
50% of that fat from that liver. All you
have to do to correct diabetes is to go
on a lowcarb ketogenic diet with
intermittent fasting because not only do
carbs increase blood sugars and insulin,
but also the frequency of eating. So, if
we just have two meals a day or even one
meal a day, boy, you're going to be good
if you keep your carbs low and then you
give it more time. Some people can
reverse their diabetes in 10 weeks.
Sometimes it's a little bit less.
Sometimes it's a little bit longer, but
in medicine, they don't ever like to be
very positive about putting anything in
reversal, but there's a few great
studies I'm going to put down below by
Verta Health that talked about reversal
and it's pretty credible. You should
check it out. Couple things you can add
to this to speed it up. Exercise,
consistent, regular exercise. Apple
cider vinegar in water diluted before
meals, like one tablespoon. If your
blood sugar is high in the morning, go
for a walk and burn off that sugar.
Bourberine is a good natural alternative
that acts like metformin. Keeping your
sleep good, keeping your stress down,
getting enough sunlight are all really
important things. But I have a detailed
video on how to do the ketogenic diet
right here. I highly recommend you watch
it right now. Check it out.
