Cancer is actually a parasite, believe
it or not. And the cure costs $5. A drug
designed to kill parasitic worms just
helped three stage four cancer patients
into complete remission. And absolutely
no major cancer center will run a
clinical trial on it. How does a drug
that kills parasites also kill cancer?
At the molecular level, cancer really is
a parasite. It consumes your resources,
it spreads into new territory, and
cancer runs the exact same survival
machinery that parasites and fungi have
been using for billions of years. In
2025, over 2 million Americans were
diagnosed with cancer. Cancer in young
people is up 79% in 30 years. Colorectal
cancer went from the fourth leading
cause of cancer death in young men in
the '90s to number one. And I just want
to mention something about survival
rates, too. If anyone ever tells you
that they're improving, realize that
survival success in cancer means this.
If you survive for 5 years, it's a
success, okay? And so if you die past
the 5 years, you're still considered
successful. So, first let me give you a
little foundation of what cancer is. The
first thing you need to know is in your
cells, you have these things called
mitochondria. Those are the energy
factories in the body. And from every
unit of glucose, you make 36 units of
energy. They're called that ATP. Now,
I'm not going to get into the details of
how it morphed in our bodies and became
part of us, but we made an arrangement
that the mitochondria makes the energy
and we provide the home for this
bacteria. When it's exposed to toxins or
radiation, and it becomes damaged, now
it's going to actually take a different
pathway to make energy, okay? Because in
the body, it's all about energy. When it
reverts into this other system of making
energy, this is an ancient system, okay?
And it's not very efficient. It's a
backup system outside the mitochondria.
This system exists in bacteria, it
exists in funguses, it exists in all
different types of life forms. And this
system of energy is very crude and it
doesn't make a lot of energy. It's very
inefficient.
And when I say inefficient, the
mitochondria make 36 units of energy per
glucose, this only makes two units of
energy per glucose. And this is what
cancer is, okay?
A Nobel Prize winner named Otto Warburg
discovered this nearly 100 years ago.
And this is why when they diagnose
cancer, they use a PET scan. What is a
PET scan?
Well, they inject you with radioactive
sugar and then scan the body with this
machine, and then the cancer will light
up very bright on these scans. And so
when you do a PET scan, they can see
areas in the body where there's a lot of
metabolism of sugar, okay? That's where
you have cancer because cancer's eating
that up. So, cancer is using this old
backup system. It's a primitive survival
mode called glycolysis. One of the
problems for our cells is there's a lot
of waste from this crude machinery and
it's producing a lot of lactic acid. And
cancer can thrive in that environment
where our cells have a hard time. If
there's damage in your lung from
smoking, for example, and there's
inflammation, cancer might travel into
that area. Now, I will say that cancer
also has some backup plans, too, because
it's very, very adaptive. It can also
live on an amino acid called glutamine.
It also can live on branched-chain amino
acids. And in advanced cases, it can
even live on ketones. That's for a
different video. And I know this sounds
depressing because like, what are we
going to do? Just hang in there. I'm
getting there. So, now what does cancer
have to do with parasites? Well, if you
think about it, the backup system
glycolysis, okay, is one of the oldest
metabolic pathways on planet Earth.
Researchers have identified
three different survival systems
that parasites, fungus, worms, and
cancer all use to survive. The first one
is an internal scaffolding. The
scaffolding is an internal skeleton that
makes up the structure. And what's very
unique about cancer and parasites is
they both are rapid dividers. Like even
a tapeworm, for example, can produce
50,000 eggs a day. Cancer cells divide
non-stop because they basically don't
have any more brakes. It's all
accelerator. And so if we take an
antiparasitic drug, fenbendazole, this
is a drug that grabs onto these little
tubular proteins and breaks the
scaffolding down. And all of these other
antiparasitic drugs, whether it's
ivermectin, natural herbs like wormwood,
black walnut hull, and clove, do the
same thing either directly or
indirectly. The second survival
mechanism is they turn off this
self-destructive button. Normally, when
there's damage within a cell, it
actually commits suicide for the
greatest good of your body. These
parasites, these fungus and cancer cells
have this little sign on them that says,
"Don't kill me, okay?" And this somehow
tricks the immune system into thinking
that it shouldn't kill them. The
antiparasitic drugs and natural remedies
actually just remove this little badge.
So, that way your immune system can take
over and kill them. So, a lot of people
ask me, "What supplements do I
recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not
biased of my own high-quality supplement
line. But if you go to Amazon and type
Dr. Berg supplements, you'll find more
information. Now, let's talk about the
third mechanism of survival, okay? All
the parasites, the fungus, all use
glycolysis. Well, these antiparasitic
remedies basically start blocking either
directly or indirectly
glycolysis. So, all of these
antiparasitics inhibit the fuel source
for cancer. And when I was looking into
the ivermectin and fenbendazole, I
didn't even realize that the other
herbal natural remedies that a lot of
people take for parasite cleanses also
do a very similar action indirectly and
directly. The question is why haven't
you heard about
first of all, the patents expired years
ago. And no one's going to spend $100
million
on a $12 remedy. Most of the research,
which I'm going to put links down below,
are from universities in South Korea,
India, and small labs. No industry
funding, no conflicts of interest.
There's also quite a bit of published
case studies documenting these
antifungal results in stage four
patients with cancer that have
resistance to chemotherapy. Another
interesting study in 2025, fenbendazole
targets regular cancer cells and cancer
stem cells. These are the seeds that
survive chemo and regrow tumors.
100% survival in treated mice, zero in
untreated controls. These compounds even
work in chemo-resistant cancers. So,
yes, you need to cut out the sugar and
the refined carbs and the refined grains
and the refined starches because all of
that will feed cancer. And I know some
people are going to have questions. If I
have cancer, do I have to also avoid
glutamine and branched-chain amino acids
and ketones? That information is in
another video I'm going to put down
below because what you want to do if you
have cancer, and I'm not telling you
to try these remedies or not try them.
I'm just giving you information to do
further research. But if you have
cancer, you need to do multiple things
because cancer is very smart. And
there's a video I did that talks about
how to rotate the diet. So, as soon as
the cancer starts adapting to one fuel
source, you change it to another diet
and you keep rotating it. But the other
thing you have to realize is that the
immune system really is the most
powerful thing to kill cancer. And
there's two cells, one called the killer
T cell, and number two is the natural
killer cell. Both of these immune cells
directly kill cancer. And there's four
things you can do to support these two
cells, okay? Number one, you can start
to increase your vitamin D levels. But
you don't want to just take a little bit
of vitamin D, like 600 IUs. That's not
enough for the immune system, especially
for these two guys right here. Fasting,
regular fasting and prolonged fasting is
probably the most powerful weapon. I've
done a lot of videos on that and I talk
about why. Sleep also helps to support
these two cells and exercise. So, given
that information, the antiparasitics,
both medication and even some of the
natural remedies, have the ability
to dismantle the survival mechanism of
not just parasites and worms, which are
basically the same thing, but also
cancer. Why? Because cancer behaves like
a parasite. Now, the absolute next most
important video for you to watch is what
to eat when you have cancer, okay? And
how to rotate your eating plan. And for
that information,
it's right here, this video. Check it
out.
