Walking is one of the most powerful
medicines. It lengthens your life,
decreasing anxiety and depression,
reducing cortisol. It's good for
digestion, strengthening your immune
system. If we just look at the research
on steps, anything below 2,000 steps,
which is one mile, you actually start
seeing the risk of diseases going up.
Then when you get up to about 4500
steps, which is a little over 2 miles,
you start to see cardiovascular
benefits. If you go a little more past
7,000 steps, you start seeing a lot more
benefits, including living longer. One
of the things that will nullify the
benefits of walking is sitting too long
and then thinking that I can go ride my
bike around the block and that will be
enough to counter that. Unfortunately,
it's not quite true. Let's first talk
about the benefit of what walking can do
to your blood sugar. Walking after a
meal really will help any extra sugar
that you ate. Of course, I know some
people are going to go, "Wow, I can just
eat more sugar and walk." Well, I'm not
trying to put out that message. Another
thing in the morning when you wake up
with high blood glucose, especially if
they're a pre-diabetic or a diabetic,
walking can handle that too because you
can go for a walk in the morning and
burn off that excess glucose, which
should be a very, very good thing
because we don't want the glucose
converting into fat. Walking activates
your muscles, significantly improves
depression because it's a low stress
activity where you get a lot of oxygen.
If we compare walking to drugs, let's
take high blood pressure medication.
Guess what? Walking lowers your blood
pressure. As far as weight loss goes,
yes, you're going to lose weight with
walking, especially in the the belly
area, visceral fat. But when you
exercise, you're going to be increasing
muscle, and that weighs a little bit
more than fat. Instead of focusing on
weight loss, what I recommend you do is
just measure your waist at the level of
the belly button. You should see a
significant decrease in belly fat. If
you walk during a fast, you can improve
your results greatly. This is why when
you wake up in the morning and you don't
eat, you fast until noon, you should
walk in the morning. You'll get better
benefits. Another tip with walking is if
you walk briskly, you will have much
better benefits. Even if we compare the
same steps, if you're walking faster,
your results are going to be better.
Also, uh drinking a little apple cider
vinegar and some water, that can improve
your ability to lose weight because what
it does to your blood sugar. Of course,
there's a lot of other things to do to
increase more intensity when you're
walking. Walk up a hill. You can walk
upstairs. In 2017, there was a Japanese
study which actually has amazing
benefits. It can actually produce three
times the results of lowering blood
pressure, 10 times the results with leg
strength. All you do is for three
minutes you're walking fast and then for
three minutes you're walking normal. And
you simply go back and forth, back and
forth five times. that specific type of
walking for 30 minutes gives you more
benefits than an hour and a half to two
hours of just regular walking. Another
tip that I would recommend is to walk
backwards. It strengthens your knees and
ankles and hips and it apparently it
improves more cognitive function when
you do that. It also helps your balance.
Of course, do this in a safe place. I
wouldn't necessarily do this walking
down the street in a city. Another uh
thing that I recommend is nasal
breathing when you're walking as much as
possible because you can increase more
CO2 which then makes your oxygen more
efficient in your blood. Another really
important purpose of walking to counter
the stress of life. When I go for a
walk, I do not bring my cell phone. I
don't listen to music. I'm not watching
videos when I'm walking. What I'll do is
I'll use as many sense organs as
possible. I'll be looking at trees. I'll
be looking at different colors. I'll
look at how bright it is or how cloudy
it is. I'll look at the details of
things on the ground. I try to really uh
focus in on listening to all these
different sounds as long as I can. Then
I'll shift to smelling different things.
These are all things that help you get
into the present. Sometimes it might
take up to 30 minutes to an hour before
I can achieve that. There's a couple
other tips I want to tell you about
walking. You can also uh do a form of
hypoxia training, mimicking uh how
athletes train at high altitudes. Since
we're on the topic of athletes, I met
this 70-year-old man who went from
literally almost dying of a heart attack
to being like a world champion sprinter.
Let's just see what he says about
sprinting as an exercise that is awesome
for your body. I had flat feet my whole
life. You got some data that sprinting
really helps to, you know, strengthen
the arch and also allows for that
spring. I'm doing sprinting up hills
right now and it's amazing how my feet
are responding and they're like putting
back in that elastic band uh bypassing
the actual loss of the arch. I'll tell
you, hills. I do 100 meter hills uh once
a week. Um after I've done all my warm
up, that's like the beginning of a
workout. I'll do 100 meters uphill.
I walk it back at a slow pace. I run
another one immediately. I do that six
times. By the sixth time, you feel like
you're like about to be crushed. Then I
have an 8 minute break and then I start
doing whatever the coach told me I had
to do that day. Um but yeah, heels have
been fantastic. And you know running
people most of us walk somewhat flatfoot
but when you run short distance in a
track you're running on your toes
especially when you put your
when you put your spikes on it's
completely different physiological
function. The biomechanics are
completely different.
But now back to hypoxia training. How do
we do that naturally? All you have to do
is periodically sync your breath with
inhalation for three steps and
exhalation for four steps. This is not
an exact hypoxy method. It's a form of
it. It's something I would do before
this next thing I'm going to tell you.
But it's a way of restricting oxygen to
a certain degree. Then you can work up
to every few minutes you're going to
hold your breath for 5 to 10 seconds.
Let me tell you some of the benefits
that can occur when you do this over a
period of time. you're triggering
certain genes in the body that
compensate and make your body stronger,
decreasing inflammation and even help
improve your recovery. Let's talk about
the mistakes with walking. Mistake
number one, leaning too far forward
because that's going to put pressure on
your upper back muscles as well. Another
mistake is wearing shoes that are very
cheap or uncomfortable. Another mistake
is not taking advantage of having your
exercise get rid of the sugar. In other
words, when you walk is important. The
other thing is that some people get very
enthusiastic and they overtrain. They go
out for a a really long walk and they
make this a habit of walking every
single day over soreness. So, they're
overtraining and I don't recommend that.
That's a big mistake. You want to let
your body recover so it's not so sore.
Now that I covered walking, there's
another type of exercise to take your
fat loss to the next level in just 11
minutes a day. Check out this video
right now to learn how to do it. This
one right there. Click it.
