why you were taught to fear vitamin D.
You know, vitamin D can be dangerous. It
can raise your calcium levels in your
blood. It can even damage your kidneys.
It can be very toxic. At least that's
what we've been told. But here's the
question that very few people are
asking. Is it safe to stay deficient?
Because humans have not evolved from
avoiding vitamin D. We have evolved
under massive amounts of sun exposure
daily intense unfiltered without
sunscreen. And now suddenly we're told
that the sun is dangerous. Vitamin D is
risky if you take too much and you must
take safe amounts. What is a safe
amount? It's never been established. The
conventional medical idea of safe
amounts is amounts so small that it's
not even biologically effective for most
conditions. Another thing that you have
to realize is vitamin D is not really a
vitamin. A vitamin is typically
something you get from food. And you can
get vitamin D from salmon and other
foods, but you can't even get close to
the amounts that you really need from
food. What's interesting about vitamin D
is vitamin D is actually made by your
own skin with the help of the raw
material cholesterol. So if you really
think about what vitamin D is, it acts
like a hormone that turns on many genes,
like over a thousand different genes.
And you're definitely not going to hear
this from your medical doctor because
this is rarely taught in medical school
unless you're at a higher level in
biochemistry. So you have one system of
vitamin D right here that really focuses
on the bone and calcium regulation. This
system right here requires your liver
and your kidneys for the conversion into
the active form. So in other words, when
you take vitamin D or you have sun
hitting your skin, it turns into the
vitamin D that's inactive. It's not
active yet. Okay? it doesn't really do
anything until it has to go through
these different pathways and get to the
point where it's activated and it ends
up in your cell. Now, this system over
here rarely talked about. It's called
therine or paracrine system. And what
that basically means is you don't need
the kidney or the liver for the
conversion. The conversion of the
inactive form happens within your cells.
And this system right here helps run the
immune system, the brain, also your
muscles and your nervous system, the
breast tissue, your colon, prostate, and
many other tissues. The vitamin D in
this system right here has a halflife of
24 hours. What does that mean? It means
that you need regular amounts of vitamin
D every 24 hours. Okay? This system
right here takes like 3 weeks. So, you
don't require everyday vitamin D for
this system right here. This system
right here needs at least 8,000 to
10,000 IUs of vitamin D3 every single
day to maintain it. This system over
here only needs 600 to 800 IUs every 3
weeks to maintain it. You see the
problem? Medicine has been focused on
this primarily forever and they
completely ignore this section right
here. So now I'm going to answer the
trillion dollar question. What happens
to big pharma? If vitamin D actually
works. Now think about vitamin D, what
it can do for reducing cancer risk.
Massive. Cancer drugs right now make
revenues like $300 billion a year. What
about the effects of vitamin D and
autoimmune disease? Dr. Cobra out of
Brazil has developed the Cobbra
protocol. And with MS, for example,
there's like a 90% success rate using
high doses of vitamin D. I will put the
link of my interview with him down below
in the description. But think about how
much money right now is spent on
autoimmune drugs. You're talking about
tens of billions of dollars. And then
you have drugs that suppress the immune
system. Prennazone for example, and
there's many others as well. And that's
roughly about 77 billion dollars. Now,
what about the effects of vitamin D for
diabetes, right? Or high blood pressure
or depression. All of the big pharma
drugs make billions of dollars just for
those symptoms alone. So, imagine a free
unpatentable
hormone made by sunlight that can easily
reduce these diseases at the very
minimum 10 to 15 to 20%. That would be a
serious dent into revenues. Okay. So,
mainstream medicine does not like
vitamin D. In fact, certain journals and
medical institutions do not like to
publish anything positive, anything good
about vitamin D, period. And I've had
quite a few interviews with some of the
top doctors that actually told me that.
I'm not just making this up. A Harvard
randomized clinical trial of nearly
26,000 people found that vitamin D
reduce autoimmune diseases by 22%. 22%
of a multi-billion dollar market. So is
the problem really vitamin D toxicity?
Is that such a common problem? So this
is why there's been a lot of hyperfocus
on narrowing in what your vitamin D
level should be between 600 and 800 IUs.
completely insignificant amounts. And
then when you get up to 2,000 4,000 IUs
of vitamin D, which is still like just
half of what you need on a daily basis,
some doctors call that toxicity. I mean,
think about this. 20 minutes of summer
sun will give you 10,000 IUs of vitamin
D3. 20 minutes. Is that toxic? And
another thing that's interesting about
vitamin D is that your body doesn't read
vitamin D as a supplement. It reads it
as a time of the year because in the
winter vitamin D drops. So this is
programmed in our DNA. Okay? It's
cyclical by seasons. Winter comes our
vitamin D goes down. The summer comes
the vitamin D goes up. But when you're
actually vitamin D deficient,
your body starts getting signals that,
oh, it's winter. Slow down the
metabolism. Start changing things and
prepare for the winter. So this is why
people that are deficient in vitamin D
tend to gain weight easier. They have
metabolism issues. They have other
issues too like their mood goes down.
They get the blues. Their immune system
gets suppressed. But think about the
average person how much time they spend
indoors, not even outside. It's 365 days
of winter. Not to mention, we go outside
and wear sunscreen, right? We're going
to block any potential for getting
vitamin D because we're worried about
getting melanoma. Did you realize that
melanoma, skin cancer, has exploded
after
1980 when we started being sunobic, when
we started scaring people about the sun
and avoiding the sun. That's when we had
the explosion of melanoma. Not before.
In fact, certain studies show people
that work outdoors have a lesser risk of
getting melanoma than people working
indoors. So, we've been asking the wrong
question. Is it safe to take high doses
of vitamin D3? But we never ask this
question right here. Is it safe to be
deficient in vitamin D? Vitamin D
toxicity is extremely rare. You'd have
to take hundreds of thousands of
international units of vitamin D3 for
months. many months before you start
developing one problem, too much calcium
in the blood, which can lead to kidney
stones. But let's just compare and
contrast that with being deficient in
vitamin D, which is super common. What
kind of problems would you have from
that? Well, problems with immune
suppression, cognitive function,
increased risk of breast cancer, colon
cancer, prostate cancer, and on top of
that, a lot of the research done with
vitamin D rarely if ever looks at
magnesium and vitamin K2, the two key
nutrients to protect you against excess
calcium accumulation. Magnesium and
vitamin K2. So, now you know why we've
been taught to fear vitamin D. I have
done over 280 videos in vitamin D. My
favorite vitamin D video is this one
right here. Check it out.
