High blood pressure, hypertension is not
a disease. It's a symptom. 90% of
hypertension is a known cause. Well,
today I'm going to tell you what the
cause is. When you start telling people
that 90% of hypertension is unknown, you
make the drug companies rich because you
turn the person into an ATM for certain
medications. It's very profitable if you
don't let people know what the primary
cause is. Let me show you what the
primary cause is. Okay, so here we have
an artery. You have a certain layer.
It's called the endothelial layer of
cells. That cell layer has these little
tiny receptors for insulin. And insulin
triggers something that causes the
artery to relax. When that receptor
becomes damaged, you get high blood
pressure. But the problem is if you fix
insulin resistance, sometimes it doesn't
lower the blood pressure. The question
is why? Because when you damage that
receptor, the receptor won't let insulin
in anymore. Now it's really hard to
regulate and relax the blood vessels.
Also, insulin causes too much calcium to
go inside the cells. And this is why
they use calcium channel blockers. The
cause is insulin resistance. That's
ignored because like I said before, 90%
of hypertension is unknown cause. So
that's very interesting. But let me just
give you a little bit more data. There
is normally supposed to be a little
protective shield around that
endothelium, that layer. It's kind of
like something on your frying pan that
is a non-stick surface. And when that
substance becomes damaged, then we get
damage directly to cells and then you
start having a cascade of issues where
you get uh holes into the area, you get
inflammation, calcium buildup, excess
clotting. What's that little protective
shield? The glycoelix. And that
glycoelix is super vulnerable to getting
damaged from too much glucose or
fructose. And it's kind of weird that a
sugar actually destroys sugar, but it
does. So when the sugar is too high or
there's too much starch, you start
getting this rusting out of that layer.
It's like acid rain. It goes in there.
It dissolves it very quickly. And
without it, you get a lot of damage
inside that artery, especially
hypertension. And I'm going to talk
about that. But I first want to talk
about some other things because insulin
resistance also creates serious
deficiencies of other nutrients that if
you don't fix those, it's going to take
a long time to get your blood pressure
lowered. So, I'm going to recommend a
combination of two different things to
fix your hypertension very, very fast.
Going on a low carb diet and doing
intermittent fasting. And I'm going to
also put the link down below of how to
do that correctly. At the same time, we
want to get the blood pressure down very
very quickly. So, there's several things
to add to the low carb diet. Number one
is vitamin D. But you must take at least
10 to 20, sometimes 30,000 IUs of
vitamin D3 every single day to
reestablish this. Second thing is
magnesium. Magnesium glycinate is the
one I recommend. Magnesium helps take
the calcium out of the place where it
shouldn't be and help to balance out the
calcium to magnesium ratios because what
you need to know is calcium causes
contraction. Magnesium causes
relaxation. Plus, magnesium is going to
help vitamin D to work. In fact, vitamin
D won't work without magnesium and
magnesium won't work without vitamin D.
They're both really, really important,
especially with hypertension. Plus,
magnesium reduces cortisol and
adrenaline. Magnesium also has
anti-inflammatory properties. And
magnesium helps reestablish that little
layer, that protective glycoalics. The
next nutrient that is important is
potassium. And I would recommend taking
a good amount of potassium. You can get
potassium supplements in a,000 mg per
serving size. But what potassium does is
it directly helps to fix that glyicoal
as well. And potassium reduces the
sodium and potassium directly lowers
blood pressure because it helps to relax
the smooth muscle. And then the last
thing you need to really get the blood
pressure down is to increase your
sulfur. Sulfur is going to help
reestablish this protective sugar
coating glycoallex. But I wouldn't take
it in a supplement. I would get it from
food. One of the best sources of sulfur
is grass-fed red meat. Eggs also are
loaded with sulfur, but it's pretty wild
that some people will tell you that, oh,
you don't want to have eggs or red meat
for blood pressure because it has
cholesterol and blah blah blah. When in
fact, the red meat and eggs will totally
turn this thing around. So, to fix
insulin resistance, we want to avoid too
much carbohydrate. We want to avoid, of
course, sugar, starch, we want to avoid
seed oils because that can create
inflammation. Also make sure when you're
doing this you do not have like the
hidden carbohydrates. So in other words,
I would really uh keep a food log and
monitor your carbohydrates. You want to
keep them really really low without
cheating for a period of time. Sometimes
it takes some weeks and then you're
going to start to see it come down. I
would highly recommend getting a home uh
blood pressure kit so you can test
yourself throughout the day and monitor
this. And on a rare occasion, you'll see
maybe the bottom number start coming
down, but the top number might not come
down. The top number is primarily a
problem with the sympathetic nervous
system. So sometimes you need to focus
more on your stress by getting enough
sleep, uh doing long walks, sometimes to
take ashwagandha or maybe even more
magnesium before bed. I've just given
you a really powerful solution for
hypertension. You have to try it. Go
ahead and then comment down below in the
comments and thanks for watching.
