If you hate exercise and you don't have
time to work out, this video is for you.
So many people just don't have time to
exercise. They have a very busy
lifestyle and so this video is for that
person. Working with tens of thousands
of people over decades, I realize that
most people are not lazy. That's not
their problem. I think the biggest
reason why people give up is because the
exercise that they're doing doesn't
align with their biology. Just hear me
out. If you tell someone you have to
drive to a gym, find parking, pay for
the gym, get on a treadmill for 45
minutes, which is very artificial. A lot
of people have resistance to that
because it's just so unnatural. Not to
mention, we're wired to avoid pain and
boredom, and that's very boring, and
sometimes it could be very painful. But
what I'm going to show you today is a
much easier way to inject exercise into
your lifestyle without feeling like
you're even exercising. So, let's go
through the list. Number one, every hour
you're on the computer, okay? You take a
break and for just 3 minutes, you do a
highintense exercise, whether it's
push-ups, burpees, any highintensity
exercise just for 3 minutes. So, if
you're on the computer for 8 hours,
okay, times 3 minutes, that is going to
add up. The benefit of these short
workouts are huge and they're definitely
equivalent to a full workout. And it's
something that everyone can do because
it's just a few minutes squeezed into
your current schedule because it's very
very bad to sit at your desk for eight
hours and I've done it for years. All
right, number two. How about a 4-se
secondond workout? Can you afford 4
seconds? Of course, we're not just
talking about 4 seconds. We're talking
about doing a 4-se secondond workout 20
times in a given day. And I'm talking
about a highintensity 4 second type
workout, whether it's jumping rope or
sprinting. This type of workout is very
therapeutic to the body because you're
creating this wave approach and you're
spiking your pulse rate in a high
intensity way. Only four seconds. So,
it's very easy to do, but you just do it
spread out over time 20 times. Anyone
can do a 4 second workout. You just do
it repetitively because a number 13, if
you make your goal ridiculously small,
it makes it doable. Something is better
than nothing and it does add up. Okay.
Number three, 15 minutes every week of
weight training can create significant
improvement on your muscles. 15 minutes
once a week. This is another thing that
I think most people can do. And I'm
talking about working as many muscles as
you can in one workout. And 15 minutes
is not a long time, but it'll create a
significant effect on your muscles.
Especially as we're getting older, we
have what's called age related muscle
loss. is called sarcopenia. And the way
that you counter that is by working your
muscles. Let's talk about number four. A
lot of people are on the phone. Do you
get on the couch while you're on the
phone? Do you sit down? No. You should
be walking around, pacing around on your
phone, going for a walk. That way, you
can kill two birds with one stone.
Number five, when you're watching TV,
don't sit on your couch. Sit on the
floor. I did a video on this. One of the
best tests for mortality is to be able
to get down on the floor and get off the
floor without using your hands. A lot of
people can't do it, but if you start
practicing that as you get older, it's
going to help your longevity. So, these
are all simple ways of countering the
effect of age on our body. One of the
good positions would be a squat
position. That's another thing that will
actually open up the flexibility of your
hips. It'll help your posture. It'll
help the strength of your legs. And so,
it's an exercise that I personally am
doing myself. At first, it was really
difficult. Now, it's becoming easier.
All right. Number six, doing work
outside on a daily basis. Exposing
yourself to the sun while you're doing
physical work. Whether it's in the
garden or you're fixing something. What
I do a lot of times is I will get an axe
and I will go cut down a small tree
that's dying in the woods on my
property. I have a very thick woods and
there's always some dead trees. I will
work on cutting that down with an axe.
It's a great workout. It doesn't take me
a long time. I'm outside and so being
outside you get oxygen. You get the sun.
What do you get from the sun? You get
serotonin increase. You get nitric oxide
for the arteries. You get vitamin D. You
get infrared, which will increase your
mitochondria. So, this is one of my
favorite things and I highly recommend
everyone get out there at least a half
hour or an hour a day at least. Number
seven, solius push-ups. What's the
solius muscle? That is one of your calf
muscles and it's a very unique muscle
and it doesn't get tired. And you can
actually underneath your desk when
you're sitting, you can raise your knee
up and bring it down pumping the soius
muscle both alternately or at the same
time. But what's really unique about
that muscle, there's some research to
show that it can help balance your
insulin and blood sugar, which is quite
interesting. And so this is another
simple hack that everyone should do
while they're at their desk. So they're
not just sitting there, you know, doing
the work. They're actually killing two
birds with one stone. Let's talk about
number eight, walking after each meal.
This is another thing I highly
recommend. After you eat, go for a walk.
go for 15 minute walk to burn off any
sugar that you just consumed in your
diet because if you consume some sugar
and you don't burn it off, guess what?
It's going to be stored as fat. Number
nine is just an extra thing you can do.
You're adding more weight to the body.
They have these weighted vests and some
of them are 5 lb, 10 lb, 20 lb up to 50
lb, which actually adds more resistance
to your workout. And it's just another
extra little thing that you can do if if
that interests you. Number 10 is using
creatine. This is a supplement you can
get and you combine this with strength
training. It will help you get more
energy and strength when you're working
out because one of the barriers that
people have is I don't have enough
energy to work out. So this can give you
some more energy to work out and also
enhance your performance. A couple other
things that you could do to get more
energy is to take more magnesium. Not
only is good for relaxing your muscles
and helping you sleep and preventing
cramps, Charlie horses, but it's also
essential for making energy. So,
magnesium is important and also vitamin
B1. B1 also can help increase your
energy. And there's one more thing that
can increase your energy and that's
potassium. And just as a side note to
that, if you are tired, the only
exercise I would recommend is walking,
not any high intensity. And I'm talking
about mainly tiredness from a lack of
sleep. Okay. 11 has to do with just the
thoughts about exercise. So many people
are into this mindset like, I know I
need to exercise. I'm going to get
around to it. what they should be doing
is have a different mindset of I am
someone who is in motion. So basically
you want to put yourself in the state
where you're already that person, right?
Not like I'm working towards it because
then you're always going to be working
towards it. Let's talk about number 12.
A lot of people try to lose weight to
get healthy, but that's not the way to
do it. You want to first get healthy to
lose weight. You don't get healthy when
you take a drug to artificially lose
weight. Well, right now there's a class
action suit having to do with blindness
because of that drug. A lot of people
exercise to lose weight. What they
should do is they should focus on their
health and have weight loss as a
byproduct. If you have your goal to lose
weight and you don't lose weight the
first week, you're going to be
frustrated. You're going to give up. But
if your goal is to be healthy and you
don't lose weight, but you feel stronger
and you have more energy and your skin
looks better, that means it's working.
It's just a matter of time before you
lose weight. A lot of people as they
exercise, they build more muscle because
they are coming out of this atrophy
state. And with more muscle comes more
weight. With more exercise comes more
solidity of your bones. So you actually
get more bone strength. And the two big
factors that I like to focus on are
strength and the loss of appetite,
especially as you combine this with
going low carb and doing intermittent
fasting and then adding exercise on top
of that. Now I've already talked about
13. Any goals that you have, if they're
too big, just break down the goal to
tiny goals and make it easier for you to
get there. Let's talk about 14. There's
something called NEAT, non exercise
activity thermogenesis. Instead of
taking the elevator, you're taking the
stairs. Instead of parking very close to
a store, you're parking further away to
walk. Instead of sitting at your desk,
get one of those standing desks where
you're standing. you're adding more
effort. Our bodies were designed and
developed for a lot of motion. Okay? And
the problem in modern day time is we
don't have a lot of motion. We're so
sedentary. So, this is just a simple
technique for that. Number 15 is kind of
what we talked about here, but micro
workouts. A lot of times I get busy with
a lot of different projects, but I
always will do a short little tiny
workout and sometimes it's only a few
minutes and then I might squeeze in
another workout a little bit later and
then another workout later. So these
micro workouts do accumulate and
sometimes they're actually better than a
full workout because you're creating
this nice spike in a wave of intensity,
but you're allowing your body to rest.
16. Change your environment. Let's say,
for example, in a part of your house,
you have a door frame and you put a
pull-up bar in there. So, every time you
go into that room, you have to do four
pull-ups. Or let's say you have a
exercise band close to your couch where
you're watching TV and you have to do
some band exercise. Or let's say you
have a yoga mat next to your bed. Every
time before you go to bed, you do some
stretches. I was trying to talk to my
wife about this. I can't get her
agreement on this, but I was thinking
about building a climbing wall that I
have to get to my office by climbing
around the room. That way, I can get a
good workout and I don't have to walk
through the living room. But she didn't
really go for it. I'm going to still
work on her. Maybe she'll let me do it.
Now, 17. If we look at the difference
between a highintensity interval
training versus a long jog, go for the
highintensity interval training. There's
a lot more benefit. If we're looking at
time and a lack of time, like I don't
have time to go for an hour jock, but I
definitely have time for a 10-minute
highintensity interval training. I can
squeeze that in any different time. And
so, the combination of the high
intensity and using multiple muscle
groups at the same time can create huge
changes in your health that you can't
get from these long jogs. Some of these
athletes that are long distance runners,
they develop calcification in their
arteries because they get inflammation
in the arteries from all the stress of
that exercise. There was a certain test
that I had a while ago called a
metabolomic test. And when they tested
me, they noticed a high level of
inflammation and they noticed a very low
level of vitamin C. And I go, "Wait a
second. I I consume a lot of vitamin C
in my diet. Eating perfectly. What is
going on? And what was going on was I
was overtraining and I didn't even know
it. I love to exercise.
Exercise gives me a lot of energy, but I
like to push myself and sometimes I
don't even realize the soreness that's
going on my body. All I did was cut back
on the workout a little bit and do long
walks and then I worked out intensely
every other day and my vitamin C went to
normal without changing my diet and the
inflammatory markers went down. This
also brings up another point about
sleep. If your sleep sucks, you're not
going to get benefits from all the
things you're doing. You can control
your own health with lifestyle changes.
Okay. Number 18, get a buddy or a
trainer. Working out with someone can
increase accountability. Getting someone
to help you and push you. Super
important, especially since they have
the techniques and the knowledge and the
experience to be able to coach you
correctly. Number 19, you want to pair
what you should be doing with what you
want to do. Let's say there's a great
interesting podcast you want to listen
to. basically play it on your phone on
the speaker phone and go for a long
hike, okay, through nature while you
listen to the podcast or play the
podcast while you're working out at the
gym. If there's a great Netflix movie
you want to watch or it's on Prime or
it's on TV, go ahead and do your workout
right in your living room while you're
watching this program or exercise during
the commercials. Now, I know with my
wife, she hates the treadmill and so
with her, she's way more motivated to do
this dance routine than just to keep it
boring. One of the best tests to look at
fitness, it's called V2 max. And V2 max
is the amount of oxygen your cells can
consume. We need oxygen to make energy.
That's why we need oxygen, okay, to make
ATP. And so the last step of this whole
biochemical machine requires oxygen. One
simple way to do it is to measure your
resting pulse rate. You want it nice and
low, like 70 or maybe even 65. But I
just wanted to mention this V2 max
because it's a really cool test to be
able to tell you where you're at with
your fitness. Number 20, eccentric
exercises. If I were to take two
dumbbells and do curls, this is
concentric. I'm contracting my muscle.
when I let the arm down and elongate the
muscle. This is called eentric. So you
want to look at eentric type motion or
movement as like the brakes, it's the
muscles that are trying to stop
something. So if you're going to walk
down the hill, you're using a lot of
your eentric muscles slowing you down
kind of the brake system. If you're
going to run up the hill, you're going
to use your concentric muscles. If you
were to go into a push-up position and
slowly let yourself down, that's another
example of this eentric motion. If you
want to see faster improvement in your
physiology, in your muscles, you should
focus more on this. The strength of this
system is like 40 to 60% stronger. Okay,
number one. And it also creates a
massive neural nerve adaptation. So, it
really causes your nervous system to
learn and adapt. But what's really
amazing about this this motion is that
you get two to three times the
mechanical tension on your muscles. Not
just one half of your muscles, on the
entire muscle structure. Okay? The whole
dynamic. You have to realize mechanical
tension is the primary thing that
stimulates muscle growth and strength.
And it's the single most effective
exercise for chronic tendonopathy, which
are basically problems with your
tendons. It's a great therapy for
anything related to tendon problems. You
also increase stem cells. On top of all
those benefits, it is the absolute best
thing to slow down age related muscle
loss. That's called sarcopenia. And I
will put some links down below of how to
do some of these exercises, but I wanted
to put this on your radar to make you
more aware that there are certain types
of exercise that you can get more
benefit than other types of exercises.
So, I created this other video to get
the maximum benefit from exercise, but
focusing more on your diet in this video
right here. So, check it out right now.
