What would happen if you stopped eating
for 72 hours, three days, out of all the
things you can do for your health?
Prolong fasting is at the very top of
your list. The feeling you're going to
get from it is almost euphoric, a state
of bliss. A lot of people do it to
increase their spirituality and their
mental state. Prolong fasting is the
only way to achieve deep cleaning,
turning junk in your body to new cells.
The other thing that I really like about
prolonged fasting is that you're using
fasting for exercising willpower.
Willpower is the ability to remain in
control of your body. I mean, think
about an average person. Their whole
life they're not in the driver's seat
with their food. When you actually say
no to your body and you really start
fasting, despite the smell of food,
despite all the visual foods, your
ability to say no gives you incredible
power. This makes it easy to strengthen
this willpower and stick with it a
little bit longer than you normally
would. Let's shift gears to cancer for a
second. Just think about the biggest
risk factor for cancer. It's age. As you
get older, your risk for cancer goes up.
Why? Because of the accumulated damage
in your cells. Plus, as you age, you get
more inflammation. You get less oxygen.
Cancer tends to grow into areas of
inflammation and low oxygen. Fasting is
the most potent thing to reduce
inflammation. There is some data to show
that cancer cells can live on sugar,
certain amino acids, as well as ketones,
but not the ketones that come from
fasting. Ketones are not just about an
alternative fuel. They help your brain.
Your brain prefers them. Ketones
activate genes that extend your life. If
you do regular prolonged fasting, I
really believe that you can totally
prevent getting cancer. This is why I
recommend doing a 72-hour fast every
single month. Prolong fasting will also
take insulin and really bring that way
down. If we can keep that uh hormone
low, your body can't grow a tumor. It's
in a recycling, cleaning, cleansing
mode. If we increase more oxygen, we can
also reduce the risk of cancer and that
would be exercise, right? So, this is
why it's so important to also while
you're doing this prolong fasting, go on
long walks, get a lot of oxygen. Growth
hormone also majorly goes up when you're
doing fasting. Growth hormone helps you
burn fat, but it also helps you preserve
your muscles. Now, let's switch to some
practical tips with fasting. One or two
days before the fast, you want to
increase your fat to make it really easy
to transition from glucose to actual
burning fat. You also want to be doing
intermittent fasting for a while before
you try a prolonged fast. The other
thing that's really important is
electrolytes. I'm talking about
potassium, magnesium, and sodium
chloride in the form of sea salts.
Supplements and especially electrolytes
will not break your fast. One of the
biggest um problems with people that do
prolong fasting and don't feel very good
is they're not having enough sea salt.
And so they get keto flu, cramps,
weakness in the muscle. How do you get
this sea salt when you're fasting if
you're not eating anything? You're going
to have to take one to one and a half to
even two teaspoons of sea salt. Take a
little bit and dissolve it in water. I
might add lemon to it. I might also add
sea salt to my coffee. The other really
important thing is once you're done with
this fast, when you transition into a
meal, do not make this mistake. Don't
start consuming anything sweet or
carbohydrate. What you want to consume
is just a little bit of sauerkraut,
fermented vegetables, an egg or some
bone broth is really good because
sometimes all it takes is a little bit
of protein get you back to where you
need to be. Wait for a few hours and eat
a little bit more. Your digestive system
has gone to sleep and you have to wake
it up slowly. You don't want to wake it
up with carbohydrates. The reason why
people don't feel good when they do
prolonged fast is either they don't have
enough sea salt or they haven't adapted
to it gradually beforehand by doing
regular intermittent fasting or they
just need more protein. You may have
heard this story in another video, but I
had this gentleman who uh reached out to
me and he said um you know you might
want to do a video on my story. He was
very very depressed. He was suicidal. He
wanted to kill himself. So he locked
himself in his room for a few days and
just wanted to starve himself to death.
laid in his bed and just said, "I'm not
going to eat or drink anything." By day
three, he was feeling incredible, happy,
mind was working. He's like, "Why do I
feel so good?" So, he goes on his
computer and he discovered the benefits
of fasting from my video and uh it
changed his whole life around. Another
thing that can happen is if you have a
tendency to get gallstones, you may uh
generate a bit more bile sludge. The
antidote is something called tutka,
which is a very special type of bile
salt that keeps the bile thinned and
flowing through the ducts. Take two tuta
twice a day. If you're pregnant, if
you're lactating, I don't recommend you
do prolonged fasting. I also did a video
on a group of I think it was five to
seven people. One or two of these people
had diabetes type one and they wanted to
do an experiment where they did
exercise. They ran 20 miles every single
day for 5 days in a row. They wanted to
prove that a diabetic type one could
handle doing five marathons in a row.
But that wasn't the interesting thing
about this story. It's that they not
only ran 20 miles a day for 5 days, they
also fasted. Yes. fasted for 5 days.
What's really interesting is that they
didn't get a lot of soreness. Why?
Because the anti-inflammatory effects
from the fasting skyhigh. I just want to
put this out there just to show you. You
can actually exercise and also fast at
the same time, even if someone has a
health problem. But of course, I'm not
recommending it unless you check with
your doctor. You now know the power of
fasting in this part two. But if you
have not seen my part one yet, you will
be missing some really key points. In
part one, I talk about what to eat after
fasting, what to expect, how to get
through the barriers, how to get all the
benefits from this three-day fasting.
And for that information, watch this
video right now. This one right here.
Yeah, click it. That one. You got it.
