One of the biggest causes of lowered
testosterone is chemicals and plastics
in the environment. Plastics in your
food that you eat, forever chemicals,
pesticides, insecticides, herbicides. If
you've been exposed to too many
chemicals, the cells that make
testosterone are going to be affected
the most. This is more of a problem than
most people realize. I'm going to
interview one of the top experts, Dr.
Mark Richards, who specializes in
testosterone replacement therapy. I've
learned some things I've never heard
before. When you hear about uh
testosterone replacement therapy, a lot
of side effects come up like you do
research and there's like increases your
risk for cardiovascular prostate
problems. I want to know more about that
point because I don't know if that's
true or false. Interesting enough, last
week the FDA just pulled their caution
on heart disease and stroke off of
testosterone warning label because it
was proven that not only was it not
true, but actually testosterone therapy
done properly greatly reduces risk of
heart attack and strokes. Interesting.
You have different types of uh
application, right? You have the
injection which you have to get
frequently and then you have pellets and
you have creams. Tell me a little bit
about each one. What kind of effects
would be created one versus another? The
method of delivery in testosterone
therapy has everything to do with the
health benefits that you're going to
receive from it. So, we'll take creams
first. They found only 20% of the time
did you actually get to a therapeutic
range and then only for a number of
hours, not even for a day. Uh, when you
do an injection, you get a massive spike
in testosterone. It causes all the other
hormones and things that testosterone
makes to get overproduced for a short
period of time. The first 36, 48 hours,
he'll have a massive increase in
estrogen and that can make him
irritable. That can make him aggressive.
And many spouses, if you talk to them,
will say they don't like being around
their husband when he's injecting
testosterone for the first two days. In
other words, when you inject
testosterone, your estrogen increases.
100% of the estrogen in your cells,
whether you're a male or female, is made
from testosterone. I've gotten some
questions like, um, some people want to
get injections with testosterone, but
then you have to get those every week or
even a couple times a week, right? So,
you're constantly going to the doctor
back and forth. Is that how they do it?
Yeah, that's how they do it. And and it
goes up and down and up and down. And
that's not the way we were designed or
any of the animal kingdom was designed.
Testosterone is is the most abundant
active hormone in both men and women.
What about the pellets? The pellets have
been used in the United States and and
let's define pellets. Pellets are
compressed pure testosterone, no
coating, about the size of a tic tac.
Those pellets are placed into the fat
through a little poke in the skin with a
metal straw. You numb it up with
lidocaine so it doesn't hurt. But
they've been used in the United States
since 1940. And uh they are highly
effective. They're used both in men and
women. Um, I can tell you that 60% of my
pellet patients in my practice are
female. You dose people with pellets so
that their tissue levels or cellular
levels are at their optimum. And you can
tell that from the symptom relief that
they experience and the disease
improvement they experience and the
disease prevention they see. There must
be some type of slowly dissolving
mixture that they have this testosterone
in that kind of just gradually goes into
the body. Yes, that's a that's a great
question, Dr. Burke. From my 17 years of
experience in this, it seems to be that
the fat cells absorb testosterone and
then they release it as your body needs
it. So, if you're going to go to the gym
and lift heavy weights four to five days
a week, you may actually use up your
pellets faster than if you are very
sedentary and, you know, sitting in your
office and eating M&M's all day. So, you
get more of a stable release. It It's
100% guaranteed to be released, so you
don't have the problems of cream. And
it's completely stable, mostly steady
state for four months in men and three
months in women. So this is a fantastic
option. It's for them because there's
there's nothing there's very little that
can go wrong with it. The type of
testosterone that you're giving with
pellets versus the injections. Is that a
different type? They use testosterone
cypronate usually in injections. It's a
compound with that binds testosterone
and the enzymes in your muscles. The
testosterone pellets is honestly just
100% human testosterone. That's a
crystal and white powder that's been
compressed. The pellets are just the
pellets are just 100% testosterone,
right? The injections are a compound and
it requires an enzyme in your body to
cleave it. And it may be the cyprrenate
really isn't that big of a deal as far
as having free cyprienate in your body.
The real problem is that that spike way
up and way down is just not good. Your
cells can't adjust. They can't make the
right amount of estrogen. They can't
make the right amount of
anti-inflammatories. What material do
they get pellet testosterone from? Where
does it come from? So, um,
testosterone is a a very simple compound
to create in nature. There's about six
or seven steps in a lab and it converts
that ring into testosterone. You know,
because when you talk to people, you
know, that have had the injections,
there's complications, right? I mean,
with mood and other things, but I
haven't heard uh very many problems with
these pellets. That's correct. It's it's
the way your body was designed to have
testosterone. You know, when it's steady
state, that's when you're at your
optimum health and that's when you are
the least diseased and the least
susceptible to obesity, diabetes,
depression, anxiety, all these other
disorders that are classic low
testosterone symptoms. I guess the
argument is like why would we even need
testosterone in the first place? Why
would we need pellets? I mean, it's not
natural. I had that very question about
17 18 years ago when I first started
learning about this and it took me a
while to track it down, but the
literature is pretty clear. If you look
at our levels now in in 2025 compared to
1970, our population on average is 60%
lower than we were. And the culprit
seems to be hormone disrupting
chemicals. When someone goes to a lab
and gets their testosterone tested,
there's a normal range that you're going
to compare it to. On your website, you
talk about that might not be the the
most accurate way to know that you have
sufficient testosterone. Go ahead and
tell me more about that. I already told
you we're more than 60% lower than we
were in 1970. So when you look at some
of these ranges now, you can laugh a bit
because some of the ranges or all the
ranges I see from these labs include
levels that are just severely low and
linked to double the risk of death over
the next 5 years. And in women, we don't
even study women in this country with
testosterone even though it's their most
abundant bioactive hormone. It's almost
impossible to avoid all these endocrine
disruptors. You can do good things like
eat out of glass containers. You know,
you can not have processed food. Don't
use 10 cans. Only eat organic foods if
you can, organic meats, but you got to
breathe the air. And there's a
microscopic plastic that gets absorbed
through your lungs in the air on every
continent on the planet. It's a losing
battle. We can try our best to stay
healthy, but eventually the poisons
overwhelm us. And if we want to stay
healthy, I think we need to use
testosterone pellets in most of the
population after a certain age. What
about women? It would seem like, oh,
she's going to get a deep voice. She's
going to grow a beard and uh you know,
is that true? First of all, let's take
care care of the aggression thing.
Estrogen is what causes aggression. Um,
you know, if you look at teenage girls
and teenage boys, you know, the may
violence may be different with the boys,
but the actual aggression and meanness
that comes from estradile, it's a mama
bear, papa bear issue. As far as uh
hair, testosterone does stimulate hair
follicle growth. Women genetically don't
have beards. They have hair follicles on
their chin and and lip um and other
areas. Interesting enough, 80% of women
over 50 have to treat their facial hair
somehow with plucking, shaving, waxing,
whatever. So, I'm not creating the
problem with testosterone pellets. If my
dose gets too high, I may increase their
problem to where they don't want to deal
with it. So, I just lower the dose. If
you're predisposed to adult acne, severe
adult acne, it can make it worse a
little bit. So, there's ways to treat
the acne on the pellets. And that's
that's about it. I mean the testosterone
is the hormone that makes you chill and
happy. What type of benefits are you
seeing with your patients? We had been
taught as doctors that menopause was
caused by a deficiency of estrogen and
that that is not a true story. Menopause
is caused by a deficiency of
testosterone and testosterone makes all
the estrogen in your cells. Treating a
woman with estrogen for menopausal
symptoms uh as was proven in a big study
in 1985 is highly ineffective. I was
taught that, you know, it's the estrogen
that drops down and they don't really
talk about testosterone. It's like
that's over here. That's not for women.
Uh but that's the one that turns into
estrogen. I didn't know that. So that's
fascinating. And then what about some of
the benefits for men? It's similar
things. People don't realize that
menopausal symptoms that we know about
in women are the exact same symptoms
that men get. Well, except for vaginal
dryness. They don't get that. But but
other than that, um you know, they have
the same, you know, mood disorders, hot
flashes, they have night sweats, they
have depression. It all gets fixed when
when you restore them to healthy levels.
So their cells have adequate
testosterone to run the whole machinery
of life. You know, people this fear
like, oh, it's going to affect my heart.
But I I think what you're saying is
actually no no it's going to improve
your heart if you have enough
testosterone. I think this is a great
solution especially the biioidentical
from the um wild yams versus the
injections if someone was considering
doing this. Yeah, it's that sums it up.
That certainly sums it up. There's this
uh like hyper attention on not just your
total testosterone but your free
testosterone. And I know uh on your
website you don't really focus too much
on that. Testosterone is what we call
actively transported. In other words, if
you can imagine a claw on all your cells
surfaces that when it sees testosterone
come by on the bloodstream, it grabs
onto testosterone and it pulls it into
the cell. You also check the iodine
because iodine is kind of a co-actor to
help with the absorption in addition to
zinc and probably magnesium, right? just
sort of by accident since 1940. Uh they
found that iodine is a co-actor or let's
say the gasoline for that claw that
makes it work to grab the testosterone
and pull it into the cell. So when your
iodine is low um your claw won't work
and your intracellular testosterone
level will be low even if your blood
level is high. Amazing uh information.
Of course you know RFK he takes he does
the testosterone pellets right? Yep.
That that's uh what he admitted to on on
on video. Yeah. And he's in his 70s, so
he looks pretty pretty good in shape.
So, looks like uh he's not he's not
doing poorly off that. So, that's just
quite amazing. Yeah. And and one thing
that um you brought up in the beginning,
but I didn't address this uh false claim
that testosterone causes prostate
cancer. We actually we actually found
that testosterone causes prostate cancer
cells to die. And furthermore, they
started doing studies in the lab where
you added testosterone to a prostate
cancer tissue cell, you know, that
you're looking at and and the cells die.
Um, and this was been pretty much borne
out now since about 2008, 2010, um, by
work up at Harvard and other places.
Wow. Goes completely against mainstream
conventional, which I'm not surprised.
I'm going to put your link down below.
You also wrote a book. Um, so I want to
share that with everyone as well. and uh
he has a lot more data on this topic.
It's fascinating. So Doc, thank you so
much for taking time out to talk to me.
Thank you. It's been a pleasure.
