If you've noticed your face is kind of
falling or drooping, especially in the
lower part through here, this video is
going to help you turn that around. I'm
going to show you two simple exercises
that will be a game-changer. And these
are not typical stretches. In fact, you
don't want to do stretches for what I'm
going to show you. If you happen to be
going into a bathroom and you see in a
mirror like shadowing of the light makes
your neck look exaggerated and you're
like, "What the heck happened to my
neck?" Or you might take a selfie and
because of the bad lighting and things,
it's like this gets exaggerated. A lot
of times it has nothing to do with
gaining weight. It's something else. And
then, of course, you might try expensive
serums, creams, and it doesn't really do
anything. Your face is not just a layer
of skin on muscles.
You have a layer of fascia, which is
connective tissue, underneath that, and
also the bone underneath all of this
reshapes as we get older, as well. I'm
going to show you what's involved with
that and how to slow down that process,
and maybe even reverse some of it. But
out of all the parts of our body, our
faces tend to age first, and that has to
do with this one thing. Your face is a
highly sensory organ. The receptors for
hormones are highly concentrated in your
face. Mainly for a couple of reasons,
but one is emotions. So, out of your
entire body, if you look at someone,
you're going to notice their emotions
with their face more than any part of
the body. So, what we're talking about
with emotions is both positive emotions
and negative emotions, right? The
negative emotions could be anger, it
could be hostility, it could be fear, it
could be grief,
depression. All of those negative
emotions have a serious effect on the
facial structures and the muscles and
the connective tissue. Mainly due to
this stress hormone called cortisol.
Cortisol tends to really destroy
someone's face. It can age the face. You
can get cortisol face, which is actually
accumulation of certain fat in the face.
I actually had that, and that could have
been because I took cortisol every year
in my 20s. This accumulation of a lot of
negative emotions
really wears down the facial structures,
especially as we get older, because a
lot of this accumulates. The one that
affects the face the most is this one
muscle called the platysma. It's a
really interesting name for a muscle,
but the platysma is the muscle that goes
from your collarbone to the jawline. And
when this muscle gets loose, it tends to
hang. It creates like that turkey neck.
One of the very important things you
need to know about this muscle is it's
almost entirely fast-twitch fibers.
They're lightning speed fibers. They're
designed for explosive movements. And
this is why you never want to do like a
sustained hold stretch on your neck
muscles. You want an exercise that's
completely different, because this
muscle is involved in smiling, gasping,
talking, not the slow sustained holds.
Now, before we get into the stretch, I
just need to mention a couple things.
One, cortisol. Cortisol is an enemy to
your face, especially when you're in any
lower emotions. And so, the best way to
deal with cortisol is not necessarily
just to pretend like you're not
stressed, but to use motion and exercise
and walking to kind of burn off that
excess cortisol that builds up in your
body through a stressful day. And the
main stress that activates cortisol is
not physical stress, it's mental stress.
And this is why we need to pair the
mental stress with the physical walking.
That's the antidote. So, a lot of people
ask me, "What supplements do I
recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not
biased with my own high-quality
supplement line, but if you go to Amazon
and type Dr. Berg supplements,
you'll find more information. As a side
note, some people take hyaluronic acid,
which is a natural remedy to help
increase hydration to your skin,
but that only works on a very
superficial layer.
It does not work on the actual root
cause, which is the muscles underneath
the skin, or the bones that make up your
face. So, the two exercises I'm going to
teach you right now are one to help with
this muscle, which is underneath here,
and the other is to strengthen
the muscles, the connective tissue, the
ligaments, the fascia
around your lower part of your face
through here using the jaw muscle. A lot
of foods that we eat now are completely
soft foods, so we don't use our jaw
muscles anymore. And way back in the
past, when we used our jaw muscles,
when we ate grass-fed, grass-finished
meats, you know, you had to chew it for
a period of time, and it builds up your
facial structure really, really nice.
So, that's one of the things that we
need to go back to. I'm going to show
you an exercise that you can do every
day that will mimic that, so you can
start strengthening the muscles in your
face and start to restructure what's
underneath the skin. So, your face is
going to look a lot younger from this.
All right, we're going to show you the
first exercise for the platysma, okay? I
will be honest with you, this exercise
is probably not one you want to do in
public, because it's a little cringey,
but it's super effective. And notice how
fast she's doing it. She's doing uh
about 10 to 15 impulses with a rest in
between, okay? And you're basically
you're exploding this muscle underneath
your chin, and it's going to tighten
this whole thing. Now, what's
interesting when you do this, your
muscles are going to get really, really
tired, and you're going to get really
sore, but it's super effective, and you
want to do three sets of these several
times a week, until you notice a nice
tightening of all the structures, not
only underneath your jawline, but you
should notice tightening around the jaw,
as well. Okay, I'm going to give you two
more exercises. This one is going to
work on your jaw muscles. This is one
that should have been built up by
consuming a lot of meat with collagen,
but we don't do that because we have the
most tender meat and the softest foods.
So, this will activate the muscles and
ligaments and tendons around your face
to actually help the bone structure and
help the muscle that defines your face.
What you're going to do is just going to
hold your chin right here,
and then you're going to open your mouth
against resistance. It kind of reverses
the flow from contracting the muscles.
We're going the opposite direction. Now,
let's do it from the side, just so you
could see it. I would recommend doing 10
reps three times, kind of spaced out by
30 seconds, a few times a week. So, now
we're at the third exercise, which also
works on the jaw, a little bit
different. We're going to be causing
this lower jaw to jut out. This involves
different muscles that are actually
pulling the bottom jaw forward. Now,
from the side, you can see it a little
bit better. So, you do 10 reps three
times with a 30-second break. Rarely
does anyone really work on their facial
muscles. So, actually go ahead and do
these exercises. Come back 1 to 2 weeks
from now and comment down below on what
that has done for you. And before you
go, you have to see this video on how to
get rid of your cellulite right here.
Check it out right now.
