What would be the absolute number one
best thing to get rid of your cellulite
on your thighs and your buttocks? That's
what we're going to talk about today.
And it just so happens to be a very
specific type of exercise. What's really
unique about cellulite is it only really
occurs 4 in above your knee, in your
thighs, and your buttocks. It cellulite
does not occur in your stomach, arms, or
breast tissue. What's even more
interesting is really understanding what
cellulite really is. If you were to kind
of go into the tissue and look
underneath the skin, you have this layer
of muscle. Then you have a fat layer.
Then you have a sheet of connective
tissue that's called fascia. What
cellulite is is a disruption of this
connective tissue fashcia. And then the
fat kind of comes up and then it becomes
very very unorganized. But the big
question is why? What happened to that
layer of connective tissue that's
supposed to be there? Many people for
many years had a confusion that
cellulite was just a fat problem when
it's really not. There's actually an
enzyme that dissolves collagen and
there's too much of it. The primary
trigger of that is going through your
menstrual cycle. Because when you think
about it, when you go through a
menstrual cycle, you have to have this
enzyme be released to create shedding of
part of your uterus every single month.
And so to create that shedding, you have
this enzyme release that comes up, gets
rid of the collagen, and then you grow
back another layer. That's all
interesting, but now what do we do about
it? Do we just start eating more
collagen to get that connective tissue
layer back? No, that's not going to
remove the cellulite. In fact, what you
want to do is you want to put back that
connective tissue layer to keep
everything nice and tight and toned. But
if you just focus on losing weight
without building the collagen, you're
still going to have the cellulite. And
if you start eating more collagen, it'll
provide more collagen material to build
that connective tissue layer, but that
won't be enough to correct it. Another
question is how can we inhibit that
enzyme that's dissolving that layer of
connective tissue? You can get something
called green coffee bean oil and a lot
of times it'll come with retinol which
is vitamin A and sometimes some collagen
and that cream will help you a little
bit in inhibiting that enzyme that's
breaking down that layer. And sometimes
they'll put green tea extract in there
as well. The big question is out of all
the things that you can do, what is the
most potent way to stimulate the
formation and growth of that connective
tissue? It's highly responsive to
mechanical stress. If you mechanically
stress your skin, your muscle, your
ligament, in your legs, and your
buttocks, you will create a massive
stimulation of new collagen. You don't
want to just jump into this overnight.
You want to gradually ease into it
because what I'm going to show with you
is pretty intense, but it's very
effective. Let me first give you some
exercises that you would do to work up
to what I'm going to tell you. We're
trying to stimulate some new layers of
connective tissue around your muscles
and your fat to give some more shape and
tone to your legs and buttocks. So,
there's two simple exercises that I'm
going to recommend to start with. And
this would be a combination of slow
squats, like four seconds going down and
then two seconds going up. And just do
like three sets of 10 reps. Do that
every day. And the other exercise I
would alternate with would be step down
lunges. You can do one leg at a time and
then you alternate. But this will really
target the buttocks, the thigh. And you
can simply start off with three sets of
10 reps of each of those exercises going
back. And I would just do these twice a
week. Of course, if you do them once and
you're really really sore, you might
have to wait, you know, three or four or
five days to sometimes up to a week
before you heal. I don't want you to do
these on top of soreness. We want to let
the recovery occur because we're
building collagen and you might not have
anything left. And in that case, you're
going to do this very gradual and work
into it over a period of weeks or even
months. There's a lot of other things
you can do depending on your fitness.
You can do plyometrics where you're
jumping on a box. You can jump rope
which stimulates the cells that make
collagen. But there's one exercise
that's the ultimate of all these
exercises. This goes right to the core
of your cells. Not to mention, it's
probably one of the most powerful things
to burn the superficial fat. It's called
subcutaneous just underneath the skin.
What is this exercise? You find a hill
that's not too even and you would start
walking up the hill for a while and then
you're going to eventually sprint up the
hill. What that's going to do, it's
going to create an explosion in your
stimulation for connective tissue
because we're doing super high intense.
We're pushing and we're pulling our body
up and not even on an even surface. It's
not just a linear thing. You're kind of
going side to side and so your body has
to do all this extra stabilization to be
able to prevent you from falling over.
You're trying to find areas to step off
and push yourself up. This exercise will
like create a serious burn on your
thighs and your buttocks and you'll only
be able to go like 10 seconds at the
very most. Why? Because you're flat out
doing a highintensity type workout. So,
you run up as far as you can until your
legs don't move anymore and then you
stop and you rest. And of course, yes,
your lungs are going to be burning, but
you might want to rest for 3, four, 5
minutes, okay, before you do the next 10
seconds. And you just do that three
times. and you come down the hill, which
adds a whole other dynamics of
stability, stimulating the opposite
muscles, which is also extremely
helpful. In reality, what's wild about
this is you're really only working out
for 30 seconds, maybe once or twice a
week. For most people, they could really
only go 10 seconds at a time because
they're going uphill, but for some
people, they might be able to go 15 to
20 seconds, but that's pretty much going
to be the limit. You want to go in your
pace and maybe not do the high intensity
right off the bat because it's a little
dangerous. You might fall. So, you have
to be careful. But I'm just telling you
the best exercise to do. Not that you
can even do it because you might have
really weak knees or you might have to
really work up to this. But if you could
do it, you would stimulate the most
intensity of all these exercises because
remember, it's the mechanical stress
that's the most potent stimulator of the
regrowth of this collagen. You got to
really think of this as a long-term uh
exercise program because you want to do
this slowly and then give your body a
chance to regrow these connective
tissue. It could take 6 months to a year
or more. But out of all the exercises,
this one is the best for cellulite in
your buttocks and your thigh muscle.
Just so you know, I'm already doing this
exercise on a regular basis. I'm not
doing it for cellulite, but I'm doing it
for overall fitness level. Thanks for
watching. I will see you in the next
