Hey, guys, Dr. Berg here.
In this short video I'm going to talk about something related to potassium in your adrenal
glands.
There's ... Now, you know in the past videos that I'm always pushing potassium for everyone,
everyone needs a lot of potassium.
You need 4700 milligrams, that's seven to ten cups, but there are certain conditions
that you don't need that much potassium.
It's a rare condition, but I want to bring it up just in case you might have this problem.
There's two types of adrenal problems.
You have adrenals that are hyper, high and hypo, low adrenal.
You have someone that is ... A disorder called cushing's where your adrenal is pumping out
lots of cortisol.
That's a high adrenal, it's a hyper state.
Then when that state becomes completely burnt out, and nothing is working anymore, adrenal
burnout, that's called addison's.
John F. Kennedy had addison's, you get a lot of inflammation, you actually lose weight,
you get pigment colors, you actually get a tan.
Your immune system is really bad, but your burnt out.
If you have this condition where your adrenals are completely burnt out, if you add more
potassium, you're going to actually worsen the situation.
What you need to do is increase your salt.
These people usually are craving a lot of salt, so if you're craving salt, you go ahead
and consume lots of it, and if you have adrenal burnout, you might not feel good on a lot
of potassium.
So, lower the amount of potassium, increase the salt, and see how you feel.
That might be a correction because if you have this and you add all this potassium,
you're just not going to feel right.
Some of you watching this are already like, "Wow, maybe that's why I don't feel right
when I have that much vegetable," that could be why.
But for the great majority of people, they need to increase, way more, four times as
much potassium food than salt.
They need just a moderate amount of salt and a lot of potassium.
This is a rare condition, but it can happen, and you can always go to a doctor and get
it tested, and it's called addison's versus cushing's.
Just make mental note, this may be a situation, it may not, but I just wanted to make a video
on it.
I'll see you in the next video.
