[Music]
Do not touch these 10 foods if you have
diabetes. Those 10 foods are on the next
board, but I need to give you a
foundation first to understand why you
shouldn't be consuming these 10 foods.
So, what do people know about diabetes?
Well, does it really start off as
pre-diabetes and then you have type 2
diabetes and then you have type 2
diabetes with complications and you get,
you know, your feet amputated or is
there something that comes before that?
Well, there's something that comes
before that, and it's called insulin
resistance. And insulin resistance brews
in the oven for about 15 to 20 years,
even before you become a pre-diabetic.
Unfortunately, if you look this up in
Wikipedia or even ask any of the medical
professionals that are mainstream,
you're going to get this information.
Well, we don't know exactly what causes
insulin resistance, but I think it
relates to obesity, inflammation,
having a sedentary life, being inactive.
It could be genetics, could be that
you're just getting older, could be your
hormones, or it's probably excess
calories. Right? This is what they keep
saying over and over and over again. But
there's a very large elephant in the
room that they're not talking about.
I've done a lot of videos on the
relationship between consuming a lot of
sugar in diabetes and that is definitely
one big major cause because the chronic
consumption of sugar, refined sugar,
especially fructose over time is going
to constantly spike blood sugar and
insulin because insulin follows blood
sugar sucking out the sugar out of your
bloodstream as you put it in and then
over time the receptors for insulin
start becoming blocked. Okay. So then
insulin doesn't work anymore and then
you can't let fuel in from the chronic
consumption of sugar. And to try to make
this simple, which I'm always trying to
think of ways to simplify it, if you
just picture, you have two little pieces
of this puzzle. You have the entire cell
and then inside your cell you have the
mitochondria, which is an energy
factory. And on the surface of the cell,
you have a membrane. Okay? And this
membrane is a fat membrane. And it has
to do with a reactive glue fragment
sticky thing, molecular superglue that
gets lodged in these receptors and then
just blocks the communication. But also
it gets lodged in this membrane inside
the mitochondria.
And the reason why it gets lodged in
there is that these membranes are like a
layer of fat. Well, this thing is also a
fat. And if you've already guessed seed
oils, you are correct. However, if you
ask mainstream about this, they're going
to show you some references that these
unsaturated fatty acids actually can
reduce diabetes risk, which is true. And
they'll also show you the reference and
randomized control trials, if you switch
out and take out the saturated fats and
put the unsaturated fats in there, you
can actually make insulin more
sensitive.
How can that be? I'm saying something
completely the opposite.
Well, what they're talking about and
what they're using as examples is
unoxidized
unsaturated fatty acids. They're using
non-damaged
coldressed oils. They're not talking
about the rancid oxidized oils. The
stuff that you're buying at the grocery
store on a daily basis, the stuff that's
in your refrigerator, the stuff that is
actually in your pantry. This is the
stuff that people buy. They don't buy
coldressed corn oil or soy oil when they
go to a restaurant. They're not getting
coldressed or undamaged. They're buying
something that is so altered from the
original seed. And so the way that 99%
of the population consumes these oils in
a form that has already been refined.
It's been bleached
actually with bleach to take out certain
colors. and it's been deodorized to take
out the the rancidity and the different
smells at a temperature of 527
degrees. So, just think about that for a
second. You're going to take this highly
unsaturated oil and you're going to
refine it. You are going to create so
many byproducts that are generated from
the heat and the other chemical
processes because the byproduct is
aldahhides that ends up locking up your
proteins and creating irreversible
damage in the insulin receptor itself
and in the mitochondria.
You got an average person that consumes
over 25 to 30% of all their calories
being seed oils. And what I didn't
realize until recently is these
byproducts, these aldahhides u are not
just being produced from the chemical
process and then we consume them.
They're being produced after they're in
your body and they're sitting in your
membranes for a period of time and then
there's inflammation and then you
release the aldahhides deep in your
cells. What I'm trying to communicate is
when you have damage in the mitochondria
and damage in the receptor, you
basically block this communication line.
Now the insulin signals do not work
anymore. And so now the fuel can't go in
and this is the start of all of these
metabolic diseases which I've done
videos on. Uh Alzheimer's, we get
diabetes, we get a fatty liver,
different mood disorders. When we're
talking about seed oils, we have to talk
about the state of that fat. Is it
coldressed and fresh or is it rancid and
sitting on the shelf? But not only that,
when you go to a restaurant and you look
in the back where they're cooking
things, they're deep frying things. How
many times you think they're reheating
that oil? Is it just once and then they
throw it out? Is it twice? Is it three
times? It's you're talking weeks and
weeks of reheating that oil. Every time
they reheat the oil, you're adding more
aldahhides, more byproducts, more
fragments of superglue to that food that
you're consuming. So, it's setting you
up for a very serious chain reaction of
things that happen in your cells. You
know, I looked up um the regulations on
how often a restaurant is supposed to
change out their oil.
There's no regulation. It's completely
unregulated. You could pretty much use
your own judgment. Keep reusing that
seed oil over and over and over. I'm
talking about the corn oil, the soy oil,
the canola. Yes, we have the chronic
consumption of sugar, but the seed oils
are a massive driver of not just type 2
diabetes, but many other diseases. What
you're going to have is an
overcompensation of more insulin to
penetrate that resistance. So, we get
this feedback mechanism where your
body's really dumping out a lot of
insulin. But, of course, it's never
checked. Doctors don't check a fasting
insulin. They check your glucose. So,
the glucose is going to be normal for
many years, but you're going to have
high amounts of insulin. And then the
pancreas is going to work harder and
harder and harder to produce all this
insulin to the point where the cells
that make the insulin are just going to
get too tired. And that's the beta cells
that get tired and then they slowly stop
making insulin. And now there's nothing
to keep the blood sugar in check. And
that's when the blood sugars go up. A
normal blood sugar should be roughly
around 80, which is equivalent to one
little teaspoon of sugar in all of your
blood, which is 5 L of blood. So our
blood can only tolerate one tiny little
teaspoon, despite an average person
consuming between 81 and 131 teaspoons
of sugar. If you calculate all the
hidden starches and all that, on top of
all the seed oils, you can now see where
the big problem is. The three
ingredients in most junk foods,
ultrarocessed foods, refined sugar,
refined starch, seed oils. So, now let's
get into the 10 foods that you must not
consume if you want to avoid diabetes.
Okay, food number one, you should avoid
fast food fries and fried chicken. Here
we are dealing with reused oil, which
equals those byproducts, those
aldahhides, plus an animal that has been
consuming a lot of omega6 grains
combined with the starch
is a compounded problem, more deadly
than the seed oils. When you combine
starch and oil together, you create even
more destruction to the little cells and
the receptors of your body. I mean, just
think about like on the kids menu and
regular restaurants, there's always this
fried chicken. Then on top of that, you
also add flavor enhancers like MSG,
which also makes things worse. Let's go
to number two. Restaurant deep fried
anything.
If you go to any restaurant, you should
never consume anything fried because
they're not going to be using coconut
oil or other healthy oils. And you have
to realize that the seed oils are very,
very unstable compared to saturated fats
like cooking with tailo or even lard is
much safer. And also cooking with
monounsaturated fats like olive oil,
it's much safer. It's the unsaturated
fats that are very dangerous. And don't
forget how many times they reuse the
oil. Unfortunately, growing up, I only
ordered the deep fried foods at
restaurants. I did that for many, many
years. So, that's why I'm doing this
presentation because I got really,
really sick. All right. Number three,
chips, crisps, and corn chips. Now,
we're combining starch with seed oils.
Okay, again, a deadly combination. And
then we throw a little glyphosate, which
is an herbicide in there. Just not
healthy. Oh, and I just need to pause
for a second. I created a free app
called Dr. Berg Junk Food Meter that
allows you to scan any food to quickly
get three things in a visual form. The
refined sugars, the refined starch, and
the seed oils. Now, let's get back to
the video. Number four, donuts and
pastries. So, here we have a combination
of sugar, starch, and seed oil. All
three all together deep fried. The worst
of the worst. And I remember one time
consuming, and I'm not kidding, 12
donuts in one sitting. I am guilty of
consuming a lot of of these seed oils.
Number five, sweetened drinks. Now,
we're getting high fructose corn syrup,
energy drinks, the the hidden sugar and
iced coffee syrups. And what's unique
about this is the high fructose corn
syrup might not even cause you to gain
weight, but you're going to develop
insulin resistance in your liver. so
quickly. Since we're talking about
diabetes, you need to know that. Number
six, frozen breaded foods like the
nuggets and the fish stickicks. Boy, I
used to live on those in college. So
again, we have seed oils, we have
starch, and of course, we added protein
in there as well. You see, if you just
consume sugar by itself and not combine
it with the oils, you might be a little
bit better. Or if you consume just the
oils without the sugar, you might be a
little bit better. But of course, who's
gonna actually just take this and start
drinking it, right? It doesn't really
taste good unless you add some other
things to it. Number seven, commercial
salad dressing and mayo. Wow. It's
really hard to find any dressing that
doesn't have seed oil in it. And also
any mayo. Now, there is some mayo that
has avocado oil, but most of it is like
rancid when you taste it. So, it's not
very fresh. And I can taste rancidity
really easily and I won't consume that.
So I highly recommend you just do extra
virgin olive oil with maybe some
basalamic vinegarette. Number eight,
instant noodles. Okay, they have uh seed
oils in this and also starch combined,
not to mention flavorings and monosodium
glutamate. Number nine, granola. Tons of
seed oil, tons of sugar. What about the
protein bars and cookies? They're made
with a lot of vegetable oils, sugar, and
starch. And then number 10, microwave
popcorn. You add the vegetable oils with
that, plus you're having the starch with
other chemicals under heat. These 10
foods I would highly recommend to avoid
if you have diabetes. Now, what's
interesting about these aldahhides is
there's a way to detoxify them. Okay? In
addition to avoiding these foods, if you
consume foods high in carnosine, you can
help detoxify them. What food would that
be? Red meat. Grass-fed red meat is
loaded with carnosine can help detoxify
aldahhides. The exact food that they
tell you not to consume, you need to
start consuming more of that. sulfur
richch vegetables, onions, garlic,
broccoli, polyphenols, green tea, dark
chocolate, and pomegranate. And now that
you know what to avoid, the next topic
is what should you eat? And for that
information, you should watch this video
right here.
