drink this every single day until you
don't have joint pain anymore. If we
talk about joint pain, just because
someone has inflammation in the joint
doesn't mean they have arthritis. If
you're eating things that are going to
negate or even cause inflammation, this
little remedy that you take to counter
that is not going to work. Before I talk
about what you need to add into the diet
to resolve your joint pain, let's talk
about what you need to avoid in the
diet. Sugar, high fructose corn syrup.
If you're doing too much of that, you're
going to literally put fire into your
joints. The second thing is to avoid
this stuff right here. Seed oils. Seed
oils like corn oil, soy oil, canola are
very high in omega6 fatty acids. It
creates more inflammation versus the
omega-3 fatty acids, fish oils, cod
liver oil. That's very
anti-inflammatory. Then we have gluten.
Anything with gluten, I'm talking about
wheat and other grains, has a potential
for causing a lot of inflammation, not
just in your joints, but also in your
gut. You also have something called
oxalates. Oxalates are crystalall-like
sharp things that can go into the joints
and cause inflammation and they can also
cause kidney stones. And I really think
that the people that have problems with
oxalates are people that had a history
of antibiotics because you have a
microbe in your gut that's supposed to
eat up these oxalates. And if it's
missing because you had an antibiotic
long ago, then you're more susceptible
to having this arthritic uh pain from
oxalates, especially when you have
spinach, chocolate, almonds, and Swiss
chard. If you consume more magnesium in
your diet, you can actually really bring
these oxalates way down. Even if you eat
the foods high in oxalates, then you
have other things too that can flare up
your joints like MSG. You're going to
find that in fast food restaurants.
Multidextrin is a highly refined starch
that can also flare up your joints. It's
in a lot of processed foods. Then you
have night shades, potatoes, peppers,
tomatoes. The last chemical I want to
talk about is lectins. That would be in
beans, peanuts, wheat, and especially
soy products. Lectins can increase
inflammation. And of course, the diet
that I recommend doesn't include any of
those. So, if you just follow that diet,
which I'll put a link down below, you'll
be really safe. Let's get right into
that drink I'm going to recommend for
getting rid of inflammation in your
joints. And the big ingredient in this
is turmeric. And I recommend getting
turmeric in a powder. And we're just
going to add a teaspoon of turmeric.
Take this glass. Half water and half
coconut milk because it's going to be
really creamy if you do that. It's going
to taste great. And you're going to stir
this up really nice. And I would take
like a little pinch of black pepper
because that'll increase the absorption
by 2,000%. And then on top of that, I
recommend putting a scoop of collagen
powder. For most people, it should taste
fine. And it should taste quite
delicious. For some people, you might
need to add a couple drops of liquid
stevia if you really need to. But I
think you'll just like the taste of it.
It's kind of a creamy, aromatic turmeric
flavor with a little taste of coconut.
But that is going to be the shake. And
you want to drink that down every single
day. And for some people, they actually
heat it up a little bit, not too hot,
just so it becomes nice and warm. And
they might drink that as a nice warm
drink. It really doesn't matter if
you're having it in the morning and at
night, but I do recommend for most
people have it in the morning. That way
you can kind of be uh pain-free all day
long. The thing you need to realize is
turmeric compares in effectiveness to
ibuprofen and other non-steroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs. If you take
turmeric in the supplement, I would
recommend 1,00 or 1,500 milligram doses
per day. But turmeric inhibits at least
four major inflammatory pathways. And
then the black pepper increases the
absorption. And then there's also great
things in coconut too, especially being
a nice fat to help this fats soluble
compound be absorbed even more. And of
course, the collagen can help build up
your joints on top of everything else I
talked about. Now, let's talk about
bosellia serata. In research in 2018 in
the phyto medicine journal as well
serata showed significant joint pain
relief and as effective as NSAIDs and
guess what without side effects. It's
amazing. This plant lives in very dry,
harsh climates in certain countries like
India and Asian countries, regions of
the earth where there's harsh deserts
and there's a resin that is formed and
created when there's damage to the bark.
This particular chemical, it's a
response to a physical wound in the
bark, which is wild. So basically,
you're consuming something from stressed
out trees. And then when we consume this
particular thing, it creates a lowd dose
stress in our bodies that then cause our
own body to create antioxidant chemicals
to then get rid of inflammation. The
term for that is called hormesis, which
is like a controlled stress to improve
our survival. Just like exercise is
hormesis. We're actually adding stress
to make us healthier. Well, we can do
that with various compounds in plants.
With this thing called bosella, we are
taking something to potently decrease
our inflammation in our joints. It
compares with medications but without
side effects. Now that you have the
drink for joint pain, let's shift to the
best exercise for joint pain. And it's
called walking. Walking compares to
hardcore medicine, but without any side
effects. It's not just for your joints.
It's for extending your life. No
exaggeration. Check it out. I put that
video right here.
