Today we're going to talk about the 18
warning signs of kidney damage that you
can actually see on your body. I just
want to give you some quick basics just
so you know what the kidney does. Both
of the kidneys are deep underneath your
rib cage and they have a little adrenal
gland on top of them. But they're not
just filters. If you take a look at
this, I don't know if you can see this.
If you take a look at a little
cross-section of the kidney, you'll see
that there's just a bunch of uh tubes
that kind of go up and down and around.
And each filtering unit of the kidney is
called a nefron with a super
concentrated amount of little
capillaries that are in this little
bundle, this tiny little nephron, which
is literally the size of a speck of
dust. But if you stretch out all of
these capillaries in these tubes, it
comes out to like 1 to 2 in each. And
you have 1 million of these nefrons in
each kidney. And the problem is as you
age, you start losing these little
nefrons to the point where you don't
necessarily feel any symptoms even at
like 50% loss. Your kidneys can
compensate and actually start to enlarge
and you can have a lot of damage going
on the kidney without really knowing it
for some period of time. But I really
want you to appreciate what the kidney
really is. Or actually, let's just talk
about what a nephron really is. It's the
tiniest biological filter that ever
existed. And it's super high energy.
That means it has so much concentrated
mitochondria because it requires a lot
of energy to do what it does. Because
literally per day, it has to filter 50
gallons of blood. Yet, we only lose 1 to
two lers of fluid every single day. So,
it's super efficient and it's an amazing
efficient recycler of amino acids,
proteins, electrolytes, uh, glucose. So,
it's very selective, very magical, super
efficient. And as you really start to
understand this kidney and how amazing
it is, it might get you to think twice
before eating that junk food because of
what it does to your body. One of the
earliest problems of the kidney that can
be observed in the urine is protein in
the urine. That means there's damage in
this filtration unit and it's leaking
fluid into your urine. And there's
actually even a home test that you can
get to pick this up. It's a test that
measures albumin, which is the protein
part, creatin ratio, and it gives you a
measurement. Okay? And you want that to
be below 30 milligrams per gram to kind
of detect what's going on way before
other symptoms might exist because as
you know there's a lot of people that
have advanced kidney disease in this
country. A lot of them are on a waiting
list for a kidney transplant and there's
just not enough kidneys to go around and
so then they end up in dialysis which
the prognosis for that is not too good.
So there's different stages of kidney
damage. You have stage two, you lost 20%
of the nephrons. Stage three where you
lost 60% of your nephrons. And then
stage four, you lost 85% of your
nephrons. And at stage five, which is
the most advanced kidney disease stage,
you lost almost all of your nephrons.
You have like 5% left. So 95% of all
those nephrons, those filtration units
are gone. So it's something to put on
your radar just so you can actually
identify if you have a problem with
that. And I'm going to show you what to
eat and what to do to reverse it.
Because if you catch it in time, you can
reverse it. But if you don't catch it in
time, if you get into this later stage
where there's fibrosis, I don't think
you can reverse it. So the only solution
is a kidney transplant. So what are some
things that destroy the kidney? Well, at
the top of the list, you have something
called ultrarocessed foods, which is a
combination of refined sugars, refined
starches, and seed oils, which makes up
most junk food, and it's going to create
inflammation, and then the body's going
to compensate and try to heal and
develop scar tissue. We also have more
forever chemicals nowadays than we've
ever had on the existence of this
planet. It's called PIFA chemicals. And
so we're bathing in a sea of chemicals.
The kidney was never designed to handle
that many chemicals. This is why it's
super important to have a really good
filter for your water and just to avoid
these chemicals as much as possible. One
of the biggest culprits for damage to
the kidney is insulin resistance, which
comes from consuming too many
ultrarocessed food calories. I've talked
many times about that. And then even the
the side effect from medications, huge.
There are certain antibiotics that just
destroy the kidney. In fact, a lot of
drugs not only destroy the kidney, but
the liver as well because they have side
effects and they're super concentrated
and they're drugs. But what might be
surprising to you is a low amount of
vitamin D level will injure the kidney,
which is interesting because apparently
we need vitamin D to protect ourselves
against inflammation. And when we don't
have enough, the amount of inflammation
is much much higher. So there's a direct
correlation between low vitamin D and
kidney damage. On the flip side, the
kidney has a special function of
converting vitamin D to the active form.
So as the kidney becomes damaged, you're
not able to convert the inactive to the
active vitamin D. And not to mention the
liver, too. There's no way you're going
to have a really sick kidney and a
really healthy liver. When one is
damaged, the other one's going to be
damaged. And so both the liver and the
kidney work to turn this inactive
vitamin D into the active form. So
vitamin D3 is a birectional problem. So
the kidney's damaged, you can't make
vitamin D. If you don't have enough
vitamin D, it can create kidney damage.
This also goes with magnesium. If you
don't have enough magnesium, the kidney
becomes damaged, which is interesting
because you wouldn't think of a
deficiency of a nutrient actually
directly destroying the kidney, but it
does. So, the kidney really needs
vitamin D and magnesium to protect
itself. And also, potassium. I didn't
put that on the list because it's not as
important as magnesium and vitamin D,
but it's also important. Also, uh,
people that have low amounts of omega-3
fatty acids, chances are they're going
to have high amounts of omega-6 fatty
acids, which are the seed oils, which
are very inflammatory. Not having enough
omega-3 anti-inflammatory, and having
too much of the inflammatory fats is
very deadly for the kidney. And this
last one is super fascinating. When you
don't have a good amount of sleep, that
alone can directly damage the kidney.
And maybe that's because it alters your
blood sugar. I'm not sure. But having
enough sleep can be super therapeutic
for your kidney. But now let's talk
about the visible signs of identifying
kidney damage. All right, let's go to
number one. Puffy eyes. The entire
eyelids on the top and the bottom are
just kind of they look like they're
swollen. That's a indication that the
kidney is damaged, especially if it's in
the morning. Number two, swollen feet.
If you press into your feet or your
ankles and it leaves a dent that's
called pitting edema. A lot of times
that's a kidney issue. It could also be
liver related but kidney as well. Number
three, swollen hands. This could be in
your fingers. You can't get your ring
on. You kind of bend them and they're
like painful because it's filled up with
fluid. Okay, that's a kidney issue.
Number four, sudden weight gain. That's
not fat, it's fluid retention. Number
five, foamy urine is a visible sign of
kidney damage. Usually protein in the
urine. Number six, itchy skin. This is
something that you can actually see
someone scratching and that would be
indication of kidney, but it can also be
a liver as well. Number seven, pale
skin. When the kidney is not functioning
correctly, your entire circulatory, your
blood system is going to be off and so
you're not going to have that healthy
glow. You're going to look pale and kind
of sick. Number eight, dark circles
underneath your eyes. That's kidney
issues. Number nine, you bruise easily.
This could also be a liver problem, but
it can also be a kidney problem. Number
10, dark urine. I'm talking about it's
more like a dark and amber type color.
That could be um a kidney problem.
Number 11, blood in the urine could
indicate kidney problems. Number 12, the
output of urine is less. Number 13,
constantly tired. Number 14, restless
leg syndrome. Now, this could also be a
magnesium deficiency. It can be a
problem with a lack of B1, but typically
the actual reason for that is because
the diet's so bad and a lot of times
people even are pre-diabetic at that
stage. But restless leg syndrome is
definitely a symptom of kidney issue as
well as muscle cramps, especially in the
early morning. That could be a kidney
problem. It also could be a magnesium
deficiency. But like I said before, when
you're low in magnesium, you can also
have kidney damage. Number 16 is poor
appetite. 17, bad breath. This can also
be a liver problem because again, you're
not filtering things out. You're
building up waste. And then nail
changes, ridges in the nail. That could
also be a kidney problem. Now, if you
have advanced stage 5 kidney disease,
you need to be with your doctor and
doublech checkck everything I'm saying
as far as my recommendations because
that's a whole different thing and you
have to be monitored. But let's say
you're just interested in preventing a
kidney problem. I'm going to give you
some important tips. Have plenty of
vitamin D and magnesium and phosphorus.
But I just want to mention something
about phosphorus. Um, the real damaging
phosphorus is the stuff in junk food
like coke and things like that because
that phosphorus is absorbed like 100%.
It's a different phosphorus than you
would get in other foods. Omega-3 fatty
acids like from cod liver oil super
healing for the kidney. And then also,
you probably been taught don't consume
high protein because that's going to
destroy the kidney. That is not true. In
fact, there's some interesting data on
type 1 diabetics consuming
plenty of fish and even dairy and
improving the filtration rate of the
kidney. It's the high sugar and refined
sugar and refined starch and refined
seed oils. And also this idea of salt.
Salt doesn't destroy the kidney, but if
you have kidney damage, you probably
shouldn't load up with a lot of salt
just because it can't handle that as an
electrolyte to filter it out. So, you
don't want to overload it. Vegetables
are great for the kidney. Green tea has
been shown to improve kidney function.
There's some hardcore data that zinc can
actually help kidney function as well.
and also a product called Tutka which
has to do with improving parts of your
cell to take the stress off the kidney
from working too hard. So that's
interesting. It's a type of bile salt
and curcumin and turmeric can actually
reduce inflammation. So now that you
know some of the symptoms to identify a
kidney problem, the next most important
thing to understand is what to eat to
fix insulin resistance. And for that
information, watch this video right now.
This one right here.
