Why does Ozbe cost $1,500 in the US yet
in Canada it's only $147?
Just imagine paying $1,500 for something
yet your neighbor gets the exact same
thing for $147.
This is a dirty little secret that
doesn't involve the drug. It doesn't
even involve big pharma. It involves an
invisible middleman that you've never
heard of that literally makes more than
10 of the top drug companies combined.
What you're about to learn will explain
why health care might seem to be a
broken system, but it's not broken at
all. It works perfectly. It's just not a
system that's working for you. We're
talking about a shadow system that has
hijacked drug prices and they are called
the pharmacy benefit managers. Think of
it like this. So, you go to a restaurant
and you order a burger, okay? And let's
say that burger cost $15. But before
your order goes through, some guy steps
in and says, "Hold on. If the restaurant
wants to sell you that burger, they need
to pay me five bucks, and if not, you
can't have the burger."
Think of them as the toll bridge between
you and drug prices.
But the PBM isn't just collecting the
toll. They're also controlling which
cars can pass. They own the bridge. They
set the price of gas. They use their
contracts to profit off of everyone
crossing. On the outside, the pharmacy
benefit managers appear to be very
helpful. They negotiate lower prices
from the manufacturing companies. They
also reduce out-of-pocket expenses. And
of course, they also handle the complex
logistics between employers and
insurance companies.
So, the PBM charges the employer a very
high price. It pays the pharmacy a very
low price and it keeps the difference.
And that's called spread pricing. Now,
that's the apparency, but let's really
now get into the reality of what really
happens. The drug maker sets a crazy
high list price. Let's say, for example,
we're talking about insulin, right? The
drug companies could potentially charge
like $1,000, and this is for a month of
insulin.
To have to pay out of pocket for a drug
that costs $5 to make at the rate that
that most people have to pay is absurd.
Out of that $1,000, it could be anywhere
between $3 and $600
for this PBM game. They decide what
drugs your plan covers. They decide how
much you'll pay out of pocket. They
decide which pharmacy you can use and
when or if you get your medication.
They'll often deny cheaper or better
options if they don't generate a big
enough rebate from that. They can
actually force you to fill your meds at
their own mail order pharmacy for more
profit.
So, you can see they have a lot of
control over what's covered, what's not
covered. The drug companies have to give
them a kickback. I'm sorry, a rebate
just to get that specific type of
insulin on the list that the insurance
companies will cover. If you want your
drug covered, give us a big rebate. So,
the drug maker has to raise the list
price to afford that. The PBM gets to
keep that rebate and they never show it
to the employer or the patient and then
they promote that particular drug. It's
not necessarily because it's better,
it's just because it paid better.
Drug companies get paid. The PBM gets a
massive, massive kickback. The actual
pharmacy doesn't get that much. Just as
a side note before we get more into
this, recently the FTC, Federal Trade
Commission, sued the largest three PBMs.
The FTC accuses these three companies
for artificial inflating insulin prices,
investigating their rebate system. There
were marked up specialy drugs for
cancer, HIV, and other conditions by
over $7.3
billion. One of the companies actually
counters sued the FTC over false and
defamatory statements. What's even more
wild is these pharmacy benefit managers
also own the insurance companies. But
now it gets even more interesting
because the PBMs own thearmacies. Care
owns CVS. Express Scripts owns a home
delivery pharmacy. RX owns Optum home
delivery pharmacy. so they can ship
directly to your house. Control of 80%
of all the medications in the US comes
from three of the biggest PBMs. In
reality, the PBMs are not just the
middleman. Since they've merged with the
insurance companies and thearmacies, now
they're the actual gatekeepers of
medicine. I mean, what's really bizarre
is I had no idea of this until recently.
I thought it was mainly just big pharma.
I had no knowledge of why these
medications are so darn expensive in the
US. not other countries. The more we
shine a light on this, the more
transparency we get, the more we can do
something about it. You can't do
anything about something if you don't
even know it exists. It's a big problem
even as it stands today. But it as it's
been receiving so much noise and so much
fight uh through the political spectrum
uh it's getting a voice and so the more
drug gets singled out the more that they
all start to kind of get concerned and
they start to slowly lower their price
points and get lower and lower. But
there have been instances where many,
many, many, many cases where people have
had to walk away from their drug because
they couldn't afford it at the pharmacy.
We just look at insulin. Canadians can
get it for $18 compared to $1,000 in the
US. Insane. And I'm talking about when
you don't have insurance. And it's
interesting. In Canada, the government
negotiates the prices. There is no PBM
there.
These PBMs don't exist in other
countries. and the other countries force
the best possible price in their
particular country. They have mandates
behind that. Here we don't have any
mandates behind best possible pricing
outside of the recent uh favored nations
executive order that Trump just passed.
Now the executive order calls for us to
be able to match the lowest price of a
competing nation. This is a big deal.
This is exciting. And we're all kind of
baited breath right now to see this play
out. At the end of the day, our country
sets the trend for quality research and
development. Our country is the one that
comes out with some of the brightest,
biggest brandame drugs out there. And
then other countries get the benefit of
our research and development. and then
we pay three, four, five times more for
that drug that we brought to market.
Now that you know more about this
medication scheme as a part of the
healthc care problem, there's another
scheme or shall I say scam that you must
know about if you want long-term health.
And I put that video up right here.
Check it out.
