The number one thing that's destroying
your liver is actually not alcohol. And
yes, alcohol-related liver disease
affects 16 million Americans every
single year. And that's a big number.
But what if I were to tell you something
else? Something that people think is
harmless that's currently causing
chronic liver disease in 100 million
people. Today, we're going to show you
what that is. In fact, if you can guess
what that is, please comment down below.
And then I want to also cover the number
one cause of acute liver failure, which
is Tylenol. I'm going to get into that
as well, but mainly I'm going to focus
on this one right here, which is a huge
problem, and a lot of people are not
aware of it. So, let's first give you a
little background on your liver. Your
liver has over 500 functions. It's not a
place where you store toxins. It takes a
toxin or a poison and it turns it into
something harmless through a whole
series of actions. One of the most
powerful compounds in the liver is
called glutathione. Glutathione is your
protection, your bodyguard. You also
have another system of fat export. So
this whole system keeps the fat out of
the liver. But everything you eat,
everything you breathe, everything you
put on your skin eventually ends up in
your blood and your liver. I mean, even
the lotion that you put on your hand,
you know, in about a few minutes, it's
like gone. Where do you think it goes?
It gets absorbed. It's right in your
bloodstream, ends up in the liver. So,
glutathione is one of the key things
that helps neutralize some of these
poisons. But the key is having enough
glutathione. I'm going to show you how
to actually increase it if you're
deficient. The fat export system is a
very interesting system that will
shuttle out this fat out of your liver
and into the intestines. I'm also going
to show you how to enhance that system
as well because having a fatted liver is
not a good thing. So, what is it that's
causing chronic liver disease in a 100
million Americans?
Fructose.
Now, before you say, well, that's just
fruit sugar. It can't be that bad. Let
me give you a little history. 2,000
years ago, the ancient Romans figured
out how to make what's called fuagra, a
very expensive delicacy of a diseased
fatty liver. And how did they make it?
Well, they force-fed geese dried dates.
The way they do it now is they
force-feed with corn and things like
that, but back 2,000 years ago, they
used dates, which happens to be the
richest natural source of fructose. So
they use fructose to manufacture fatty
liver disease on purpose. And that's
exactly what we're doing with our livers
right now, but not with dates, with high
fructose corn syrup in soda. It's
actually in cereals. It's in granola
bars. It's in yogurt. It's in ketchup.
It's in bread. It's in thousands of
processed foods. The fastest way to make
a fatty liver. So let's talk about
fructose and what's so unique about it
and why it's different than glucose.
Unlike glucose, which by the way, all of
your cells can process, fructose can
only be metabolized by your liver. And
when fructose hits the liver, it does
two devastating things at the exact same
time. Number one, it activates fat
accumulation. It's a fancy way of saying
fructose is basically a fat making
machine in your liver. And number two,
it will block the fat burning. Okay? In
other words, it turns off any ability to
get rid of that fat. So, you're making
all this fat, but you can't get rid of
the fat at the same time. That's how the
liver becomes fatty. And the research on
fructose shows that it is as dangerous
as alcohol to your liver. But the
difference is when someone hands you a
Coca-Cola or a soda with high fructose
corn syrup, you're not in your mind
comparing what that's going to be doing
to your liver. That's going to be very
similar to alcohol. But biochemically,
the body doesn't know the difference.
And I know some people are going to say,
"Well, fructose is in fruit and fruit is
natural. That doesn't cause a fatty
liver." Well, I'm talking about liquid
candy. I'm not talking about the
fructose in fruit that has the fiber
that breaks down very, very slowly. I'm
talking about high fructose corn syrup
in such large amounts that it overwhelms
the liver. Now, what's really bad is 5
to 10% of children now have
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. And
in obese children, 50% of them have a
fatty liver. We're seeing children
nowadays as young as 2 years old with
fatty liver disease. Non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease is now the most common
cause of liver transplants in younger
adults under 50 years old. It surpassed
hepatitis C. These are not alcoholics.
are young people who are consuming too
much fructose. So, a lot of people ask
me, "What supplements do I recommend?"
Now, of course, I'm not biased of my own
highquality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Bberg
supplements, you'll find more
information. Now, I want to talk about
acetaminophen, Tylenol. There's
something you need to know about this.
Fructose is a slow, silent chronic
killer, but Tylenol is a very fast one.
Tylenol is the number one cause of acute
liver failure in the US. Fructose is the
most common cause of chronic liver
disease. So this is slow. This is fast
because you can end up in the ICU in
literally 72 hours. Now, of course, in
small doses, it's not that damaging, but
it's very easy to actually consume a lot
of this. But before I get into that, let
me just explain what this does to your
liver. It depletes glutathione. Now, you
cannot neutralize toxins. And Tylenol is
hiding in literally 600 different
medications. So, let's say for example,
someone has a bad cold. And so, they
take two extra strength Tylenol for a
headache. So, that's 1,000 milligrams
right there. Okay. Then, before bed,
they take Nyquil, which also contains
acetaminophen. And then they do this
every six hours. By morning, you've
already exceeded the safe limit. And you
probably had no idea that you doubled
the dose from the same drug. Or your
doctor might prescribe Vicodin or
Percoet for back pain. And a lot of
people don't realize that both of them
already contain acetaminophen. And then
annoyingly, you take Tylenol on top of
that because the pain is so bad. Nearly
half of all serious acetaminophen
overdoses come from prescription
combinations. And here's the worst part.
Acetaminophen has a ceiling for pain.
Okay? So, in other words, taking more
doesn't reduce your pain anymore, but
your liver damage goes through the roof.
The early sign of liver damage is
nausea, fatigue, vomiting, which also,
by the way, looks like the flu. So
people might not know that and then they
take more Tylenol when they're actually
trying to get rid of the symptoms from
too much Tylenol. 500 people die every
year from a Tylenol overdose. But 56,000
people end up in the emergency room.
What's the good news? The good news is
the liver is one of the only organs that
has this amazing ability to regenerate
and it can heal. It can bounce back. The
first thing you need to do is stop
consuming high fructose corn syrup. Stop
consuming sugar in general because even
half of sugar is fructose. If you have
children, only give them the fructose
and fruit, the whole fruit, not the
juice. Fruit juice is liquid candy,
okay? With a lot of fructose, even if it
doesn't have high fructose corn syrup in
it. Choline is a really good remedy. And
by the way, guess what has the most
choline other than liver, which a lot of
people don't like? Egg yolks have
choline. Choline greatly helps the liver
in transporting fat out of the liver. It
prevents a fatted liver and you can
reverse a fatted liver by taking
choline. The other remedy is something
called NAC. This is something that
emergency room doctors will use if
people have overdosed with Tylenol. Why?
What does it do? It increases
glutathione. It puts back that bodyguard
that was depleted. In fact, if I were
you, if I had to take Tylenol for
anything, I would get some NAC and I
would take it at the same time. That
way, you can protect your liver. So, NAC
is not glutathione, but it actually
gives the raw material for the liver to
make glutathione. Another way that you
can get glutathione is by consuming
cruciferous vegetables like broccoli,
Brussels sprouts. Also, the trace
mineral selenium can also help make
glutathione as well. Now that you know
what destroys the liver, the next most
important video is to learn what to eat
for the liver, okay? To support a
healthy liver. And for that information,
check out this video right here.
