Today we're going to talk about the best
diets with an S for cancer. There's
multiple diets that we're going to talk
about, but this video involves what to
do if you have cancer. What do you eat?
If you have cancer and you go to your
doctor and you ask them, "What am I
supposed to eat?" Many times they will
tell you, "It doesn't matter. Eat
whatever you want." And to me, that is
so wrong. Depending on what you eat, you
can either feed cancer or starve cancer.
I am not selling you any diet. I'm not
selling you any nutrition. I'm not
selling you any products. Okay? Check
with your doctor before implementing
what I'm going to show you. Some people
are going to criticize this video and
say, "Well, what does Dr. Berg know
about cancer?" Well, I want to just put
some links down below of several of the
research papers that I'm involved with,
and you can read up on that. I think
it's pretty sound information, and when
you get all the details, it'll make a
lot of sense. If there's someone that
discourages you from even researching
this information, I would always ask
them this one question. Do they have a
better solution for cancer? Because the
problem with cancer right now is the
statistics are terrible. We spent
trillions and trillions of dollars on
cancer and we have definitely not solved
that problem. The mortality rates of
treatment with cancer are roughly the
same as they were a couple decades ago.
Now that I have that out of the way,
there's a couple things you need to know
about cancer. Cancer is very
heterogeneous. What does that mean?
Comes from the Greek word hetero, which
means different in genes, which means
kind, type, or origin. This word really
means there's many different types of
cancer. It's really not one disease. The
second thing you need to know is that
cancer itself is very sick. Okay? It's
living on the edge. Cancer actually came
from normal cells. When the mitochondria
get damaged, there's a plan B that the
cell will then revert to. And the reason
I'm even telling you this is because we
really want to understand cancer to look
at the vulnerable areas, the weak links
that we can attack. There are certain
therapies that people use increasing
oxygen to help kill cancer like
hyperaric or even exercise where you're
flooding the body with more oxygen. You
can actually stress the cancer out. It's
called Ross, but we'll just look at it
like more oxygen can actually help kill
cancer. Okay, so that's another point.
The other thing to know is that cancer
tends to spread into areas of your body
into inflammation and other areas where
you don't have oxygen. The other thing
about cancer is it's constantly evading
your immune system because your immune
system has very targeted cells to kill
cancer. This brings up the point of
chemotherapy, right? kills off the
cancer, but it also kills off part of
the immune system as well. So, we just
want to take in consideration our immune
system and understand it more and do
things to strengthen it, which I'm going
to cover in a little bit. As a side
note, vitamin D is super important in
your immune system. And what's really
interesting about cancer cells is they
tend to block the receptors for vitamin
D because somehow they know they'll
survive better. So knowing that
information, you might want to keep your
vitamin D levels a lot higher than they
are normal to penetrate the blockages or
the resistance that the cancer has
created in the receptors for vitamin D.
And I'm going to talk a little bit more
about that in the next section. But
here's the next thing you need to know.
There's various fuels that cancer tends
to live on. So in other words, if you
have a certain type of cancer, it might
need glucose as a dominant fuel to
function. That right there gives us a
strategy because if we understand the
type of cancer you have and the genetics
of it, we can then know what fuel it
uses to then starve it of that fuel. So
that's really part of what we're going
to talk about in these diets. The great
majority of cancers live on glucose and
glutamine, which is an amino acid, and
especially the cancers that are very
fast growing. But of course, now this
brings up another problem because if you
start to starve a cancer off of one fuel
and you keep eating the same diet, the
cancer will eventually adapt to a
different type of fuel. Some cancers
also can use lipids, that's fat,
especially the cancers that are
influenced by your hormones. Some
cancers also can live on branch chain
amino acids as its fuel. Despite popular
belief, and as much as I hate to tell
you this, some cancers can even live on
ketones and use ketones to build its
membranes. And especially in advanced
late stage cancers, they'll start going
after the ketones. With cancer, you
can't just do one thing. You have to do
many different things just because
cancer is so adaptive and it'll just try
to survive no matter what you do. When
you do chemotherapy, you you kill all
this cancer off. There's always a few
cells that don't die that become super
charged and very resilient. Just like
when you take antibiotics, you kill off
most of the bacteria, but there's
certain bacteria that become now
resistant. Because if someone tells you
chemo and radiation therapy is going to
completely cure your cancer and it
doesn't, well, this is why. But let me
just make it very clear. I am definitely
not telling you not to get chemo or
radiation. you discuss that with your
doctor. What I'm going to show you is
something that you can add with chemo or
without. I'm not going to actually tell
you what to do. I'm just giving you the
information, but I will recommend that
you have multiple strategies. And one is
the rotation
of your diet. If you rotate your diet
every so often, and I'm going to show
you this in a little bit, you can then
prevent that cancer from adapting and
literally put that cancer into a state
where it just can't get fuel. I'm also
going to highly recommend you do
intermittent fasting, two meals or even
one meal a day. Why? Because when you do
fasting, you can really shut down the
fuel and resources to what the cancer
cell needs, but your body can actually
go into repair mode. It can go into
something called autophagy and it can
recycle old damaged tissues. But I also
made sure all the foods in these diets
also had anti-cancer properties. So
you're just not eating food just for the
sake of eating food. All right, with
that being said, let's go to the next
stage. Okay, we're going to talk about
the diet right now. And just so you
know, I created a very detailed document
that you can download for free down
below to get all the nitty-gritty
details because if I were to create a
video and talk about every single diet
and all the different types of cancer,
this would be like an eight hour video.
So, I didn't do that. Instead, I'm going
to give you the big idea of what you're
going to be doing, and then you can
download the document to get the
specific eating plan and how you should
rotate it and the foods involved. We've
talked about the different fuels uh that
certain cancers love. Okay? So, certain
cancers love glucose, glutamine, lipids,
others branched chain amino acids, and
some cancers can live on ketones,
especially the ones that are aggressive
and late stage. And so I even listed
some of the type of cancers.
Glyobblastoma, colurectal, breast
cancer, lung cancer, head and neck
cancer, cervical cancer, all love
glucose. And then when you download the
document, you can just look up what type
of cancer you have and then you can see
what fuel that it primarily uses. And
also, and I mentioned this before, if
you look at breast cancer over here, you
also see breast cancer over here and
over here because there's different
types of breast cancer. And if you know
the genetics of your breast cancer,
you'll know what bucket that that falls
under. But realize when we're dealing
with breast cancer over here, we're
dealing with the advanced stage,
probably like a stage four cancer where
it's spread to other tissues. Okay? You
may have two different cancer cells. One
that loves glucose and the other that
loves glutamine. Okay? And this is the
reason why the diets are set up like
they're set up, like an anti-glucose
diet, no glucose, for 10 to 14 days if
you have any of these. And then you're
going to switch to an anti-glutamine
diet, okay? where there's no glutamine
in that diet for four to 5 days. This
way you can starve off the certain cells
that depend on glucose in that tumor and
then also starve off the ones that live
on glutamine and they never have a
chance to really grow and take over
because you are constantly rotating the
diet. When you do the anti-glucose diet,
which is really the ketogenic diet, and
then you switch to the anti-glutamin
diet, which is eating mostly plants,
you'll just keep rotating here, and then
you go back here, and you rotate back
here. So, let's say, for example, you
had a melanoma. You'd start with the
anti-glucose diet for 5 to 7 days. If
you notice, it's different amount of
time than over here. And then you're
going to switch to the anti-glutamine
diet for 7 to 10 days. And then you just
kind of rotate back to where you started
from. And you keep doing that over and
over again. For dealing with prostate
cancer, for example, that can survive on
lipids, we would start with the
anti-glucose diet for only like two to
three days, very short period of time,
and then you go to the anti-ippid diet.
Now, with this diet, you're going
lowfat.
However, when you read up on the diet,
you can do certain fats like omega-3
fatty acids because for some reason,
they're not going to feed the cancer.
They're more anti-cancer. So, when you
read through it, it's not a completely
zero fat diet, but it is a low-fat diet
for a period of time because what we're
trying to do is we're trying to starve
off the fuel and the resources for that
cancer as one of the strategies. Let's
say, for example, you have liver cancer.
Well, you start off with the
anti-glucose diet here for 5 to seven
days and then you go to the anti-branch
chain amino acid diet. That one was a
tough one to come up with because
branched chain amino acids are in so
many different foods. But when you look
at this diet, you'll see what you'll be
eating. It's going to be definitely more
plant foods, but then after 7 to 10
days, you'll switch back to this diet
right here.
The diet that I would recommend to
prevent cancer is very different than
the diet that you would do once you get
cancer because once you get cancer, you
have to go through this whole process
and it's scary because sometimes you're
taking chemo and sometimes people are
scaring you with different prognosises.
So, it can be very stressful, not to
mention very confusing because everyone
wants to give you their opinion. So, if
you're watching this and you don't have
cancer, I would highly recommend the
healthy version of the ketogenic diet
with intermittent fasting to avoid
getting cancer. And we get to ketones.
There's definitely a lot of controversy.
I'm going to get comments down below.
People will disagree with me, but please
read the research on this data because
at first I was personally very resistant
to even hear that ketones could
potentially be used as fuel for cancer
until I started looking at everything
and I'm like, "Wow, that sucks." But
this is more for the aggressive
latestage cancers because cancer is
going to do everything it can to
survive. And I think it's very helpful
to know this because the diet that you
would do on these advanced cancers late
stage number one, you may not even start
with the anti- glucose, which is the
ketogenic diet because there's ketones.
But the problem is when you do the
anti-glutamine diet and the anti- ketone
diet, this is like mostly plant-based,
not a lot of protein. So you might have
to do a very short maybe one to two
maybe even 3 days of consuming some
protein to get that protein and then go
right to these other diets and rotate
them because this is a little more
complex. And this is why in other videos
I talk about the absolute best thing you
could do if you have advanced cancer is
to do prolong fasting. There's videos
I've done on people that had stage four
cancer that literally fasted for an
entire month, actually even longer, and
that really just wiped out the cancer.
Now, I know someone is going to say,
"Well, wait a second. When you're doing
fasting, you're living off ketones, and
isn't that going to feed the cancer?"
Apparently, the ketones from the fasting
don't help this cancer survive. Now with
these type of cancer under the different
fuel source I've also listed some key
supplements that can help you block
glucose or block glutamine or block
ketones. The next point is vitamin D
because you want to get your blood
levels of vitamin D right around 90 or
maybe 100 nanogs per milliliter and get
a lot of sun. There's a lot of therapy
from both vitamin D and the sun to your
mitochondria and to your immune system.
Exercise will give you a lot of
therapeutic benefits to your
mitochondria and oxygen to actually help
kill cancer cells. And of course, just
to reiterate this, fasting, two meals or
one meal a day would be your standard
thing. And then here's the really
important thing with prolonged fasting.
The longer you can fast, the better. I
would recommend one to two times every
two to three weeks you do a 24 or a
48hour or a 72hour
fast or even longer do it erratically
because anything you do as a pattern
sometimes the cancer can adapt to that.
So for example next week you do a 48
hour fast and then you wait for two
weeks and then you do a 72-hour fast and
then you wait for a week and do a 5-day
fast. that would be super strategic to
your specific cancer. All right, I hope
I didn't overwhelm you too bad. I will
put this download in the description so
you can just click it and print it out
and you can follow it and you can do
more research and you can show your
doctor. But if you have not watched my
video on what to eat to prevent cancer,
I put that video up right here. It's
very important. Check it out.
