Today we're going to talk about how to
naturally boost your growth hormone up
to 2,000%.
Unfortunately, as we age, growth hormone
goes way down. In fact, by the time
you're 40 years old, your growth hormone
is down 40%. By the time you're 60 years
old, your growth hormone is down by 60%.
Growth hormone is all about burning fat,
building muscle, muscle repair, muscle
recovery, and even anti-aging. However,
there are some debates on whether it's
anti-aging itself because growth hormone
if you take as an injection can shorten
your life. It creates a lot of diseases.
It has a lot of side effects. So, your
goal should not be just to increase
growth hormone as much as possible. And
it is important to know how to boost it
naturally or at least to optimize it.
And then what are all the things that
can inhibit it, especially if you're
trying to lose weight because as we lose
growth hormone, we lose our muscle mass.
We get more body fat, especially
visceral fat. We lose the bone density.
Our skin becomes very thin, almost like
paper-like, and our insulin sensitivity
goes down. So then we have more problems
with blood sugar issues. Growth hormone
itself does not create any of these
effects in any significant way. It's
kind of like a signaling communication
that gets something else in the body to
do the work called IGF-1. In order for
growth hormone to create all these cool
effects through this hormone, there has
to be a conversion in the liver. And
that conversion needs insulin and it
needs other helper nutrients. Let's
first talk about all the things that can
block growth hormone. Number one,
insulin. I just mentioned that obesity,
age, sugar will do it, stress, poor
sleep, alcohol, overeating, especially
at night, and low vitamin D. So all of
these things can shut down growth
hormone. And if you don't have the
trigger for this, then you don't get the
benefits of all these things right here.
And the other thing that's really
important to know for this conversion is
if you have fatty liver, you're going to
have a hard time allowing this to work.
One thing you need to know about
insulin, especially in this conversion,
is that yes, carbohydrates increase
insulin, but protein can also increase
some insulin. The protein that triggers
the most insulin of any protein is whey
protein powder. When you consume
protein, you don't really have to worry
about this insulin because you also
trigger other hormones that compensate
and balance things out. Versus when
you're just consuming like carbohydrates
like refined sugars and things like
that, you're stimulating insulin but not
these other hormones that are buffering
the effect. animal protein in general
will be sufficient to create enough
stimulus to this insulin to allow this
to work. So that's all you need to know
about insulin. If you're consuming
enough animal protein, you'll have
enough insulin. You don't have to worry
about that. And the reason I'm even
bringing that up is because sometimes
people will tell you that if you do keto
too long chronically over many, many
months or whatever, your insulin is
going to go so low, then you're not
going to get the benefit of this. Well,
what about protein? Protein stimulates
insulin. So, that argument kind of goes
away when you talk about that. Also,
dairy. Dairy will potently stimulate
this insulin as well. And and especially
this amino acid leucine, which actually
is an animal protein. So, let's now
shift into the things that can really
optimize and boost your growth hormone
by two to three times. Okay, let's start
with the first one. GABA. GABA is a
neurotransmitter in your body that can
increase growth hormone. And one of the
ways that I increase my GABA is by
taking magnesium glycinate will increase
GABA. All right, next one is melatonin.
If you keep the lights out about 2 hours
before you go to sleep and maybe even
wear the blue blockers and you drift off
into sleep, it's the melatonin that puts
the pressure on your body to sleep. So
melatonin can actually help increase
growth hormone too because of the big
connection between sleep and growth
hormone. I'll be talking about that
next. Alutamine is something that is
really good for the gut health, but it
can also increase growth hormone.
Arginine is also a potent way to
increase growth hormone. Some people are
taking it, but there's a catch 22. You
do not want to take it right before you
work out because if you're combining
arginine too close to your workout,
it'll actually lower growth hormone. So,
if you're going to do arginine, you want
to take it at least two to three hours
before the workout or after the workout
to be able to have an increase in growth
hormone. Cold therapy will increase
growth hormone. Here's a supplement that
some people take to increase growth
hormone called alpha GPC.
[Music]
Another thing that will increase growth
hormone is hypoxia training. Getting a
mask of restricting your air to mimic
high altitude training. And you're doing
this intermittently. You're only doing
it for like uh maybe 10 seconds, but you
are creating this stress in your body
that then stimulates growth hormone. And
of course, doing the ketogenic diet will
also increase growth hormone. Why?
because you're lowering your
carbohydrates. And like I said before,
both sugar and insulin inhibit growth
hormone. And then also higher protein.
With women, especially when they go
through menopause, I think they don't
consume enough protein. And sometimes I
have to tell them increase your protein
because if they're just doing a little
bit of protein once a day, it might not
be enough simply because their adrenals
are in a what's called a catabolic mode
where they're breaking down more
protein. So they have to compensate. But
having sufficient animal protein is
important to have the raw material so
the growth hormone can do its job. Now
let's talk about the things that can
five to 10x growth hormone, deep sleep.
And to achieve that, you need to have
your room cooler, like 65 degrees
Fahrenheit. I just have a sheet over
myself so I'm not too warm, but I have
my feet warmed up and that seems to work
out great. I have a little blanket on my
feet. Keep the room really dark. I wear
the little mask. I wear the earplugs. My
wife does not, but she sleeps fine.
Magnesium before bed. sun in the morning
because you get the blue light that
wakes you up and it it starts this
circadian rhythm. So then at night you
can actually go to sleep. So in other
words, it takes this light dark cycle to
reset or keep the circadian waves
correct versus what most people do is
they live inside and it's light all the
time and even at night they have these
lights in their computers and it really
throws off the circadian waves. Exercise
during the day will help you sleep at
night. Glycine can increase GABA and
helps you drift off into a wonderful
sleep. Zinc can also help deep delta
wave sleep. Okay. The other thing that
can increase growth hormone by 5 to 10
times is fasting for like 23 or 24
hours. So when you're doing one meal a
day, you are increasing growth hormone
significantly. Now, let's talk about how
to increase it by 10 to 15 times. You
can fast longer. When you do a fiveday
fast, you can significantly increase
your growth hormone. A lot of the
benefits from that five-day fast occur
once you refeed. Okay? And I talk about
that in the video. In fact, I'll put
that video down below if you haven't
seen it. And then the ultimate way to
boost up growth hormone is through this
thing called exercise. You could
increase it by 10 to 20 times,
especially if you have heavy loads of
weight. With this comes the risk of
getting injured. So, really work up to
this. Get someone to help you. Don't
just jump right into it. But the more
intense the workout is, the more you're
going to stimulate growth hormone. The
ultimate way to stimulate growth hormone
is through squats and deadlifting.
Because you are maxing out most of the
muscles with high intensity. you're
really going to stimulate growth
hormone. There's a couple little things
that can actually amplify the growth
hormone stimulus, and that's if you
don't rest as long as I usually
recommend people rest. So, this is not
what I'm recommending. I'm just telling
you that if you were to rest only 30 to
60 seconds, you stimulate more growth
hormone. But I don't really recommend
that because most people do not have
good recovery. And so, we want them to
do this safely. But there's something a
little bit more intense and that is
sprinting. A flatout hardcore sprint
will stimulate even more growth hormone
than the squat or deadlift because
there's something else involved and that
is lactate. You probably heard of lactic
acid. When you push yourself where your
muscles are burning, that is lactate
filling up as a byproduct of glucose.
And that directly massively increases
your growth hormone. So with sprinting,
you are just quickly generating a lot of
lactate within 10 to 15 seconds versus
you are generating lactic acid with this
other workout. But with sprinting, you
generate more and thus you increase more
growth hormone with the sprinting. And
the research behind that, I'm going to
pull this research down in the
description. It shows that the 400 meter
and the sprinting through cycling will
will achieve that. But then you also
have CrossFit. This is hardcore. I
personally cannot do CrossFit because
it's just too intense for my body when
I'm 60 years old. Uh that's a
combination of resistance training and
cardio with very little rest, but it
does stimulate a lot of growth hormone.
You have to have really good recovery to
be able to handle CrossFit. By the way,
walking stimulates no growth hormone.
Low inensity exercise is not going to
increase your growth hormone. But I
think it's important to understand all
the things that can trigger growth
hormone and then all the things that can
inhibit growth hormone so you can kind
of dissect your life and see what you're
doing so you can enhance or optimize
your growth hormone. So, now that you
know about growth hormone, which is a
really big piece of the puzzle of
getting you healthy, and that's why I
created this video right here for you to
watch. Check it out. It's going to blow
you away as far as what it can do for
your body.
