Today we're going to discuss the 10 most
dangerous ingredients in the world. The
main issue with some of these
ingredients in junk food are not really
the ingredients. It's really something
much bigger. It's the intention behind
those ingredients. They all have one
purpose to get you hooked. It's all
about getting you addicted because they
had to solve a problem. How do you take
cheap industrial
so-called food, but it's just chemistry?
It's chemicals, modified food starch,
right? How do you get people to eat
this? In order to get someone to be
hooked or addicted to something of such
lower poor quality, you have to depleted
of protein because protein actually
satisfies you. If there was protein in
junk food, you would only eat a little
bit. If there's no protein in certain
foods, you'll keep eating until that
protein is satisfied. So, you rarely see
protein in junk food. Uh, number two,
you have to create a blood sugar spike.
So, you have to raise the blood sugar so
it comes down because even though you're
filled and you just ate, the body is
going to want to have more sugar. And
this is why someone that has a sugary
breakfast meal could be hungry an hour
and a half later, which is insane
because they're not really hungry. And
then they also have to add flavoring,
but they don't use like one flavoring.
There's literally over 1 to 200
different chemicals in flavoring that
has nothing to do with stimulating your
tongue receptors and it has everything
to do with stimulating your brain
receptors for all sorts of bizarre
flavorings that your brain is totally
confused. So, it's kind of like a brain
explosion of flavors that's like, "Wow,
this is amazing." And then they design
it to come up and to come down really
quick. So, then you can't just have one.
you have to have another one, another
one. I remember when I was literally
addicted to Doritos. I would sit down
and I just would be like, not even
mindless, just keep eating one more, one
more, and down the whole bag. And that's
because of the flavorings were so
amazing, but they didn't last. So, I had
to keep having one to keep that same fix
going because I was addicted. And then
what about this thing called monos
sodium glutamate? What is that? It will
make a food taste better than it really
is. It must have certain textures
because people don't like kind of
crumbly, dry, bad texture food. It must
have a good mouth feel in order for you
to keep eating it. You also must
actually hit this bliss point, this
perfect chemical combination between
sweet, salt, and fat. Okay, they've
researched this hardcore. And then they
use certain chemicals to increase this
dopamine which actually has a lot to do
with different parts of the brain like
pleasure and people kind of get stuck in
this trap. So that's really the
interesting thing about this. It's the
intention behind the food. It's all
engineered to get you hooked. Okay. Now
let's go through the ingredients. Number
one, trans fats. They are trying to ban
trans fats. They're still in our foods
in less quantity. They're very bad, but
they're even worse if you combine
refined carbohydrates. Talk about really
destroying the liver. If you combine
these two together, your liver is going
to be in really bad shape. People never
just consume one ingredient. It's always
a combination. And even the CDC says
that one in three people consume junk
food on a daily basis. And most people
consume junk food once a week. I mean,
that's crazy. And so we have a really
big problem. We have a big health
problem. Let's talk about number two.
High fructose corn syrup. We already
know high fructose corn syrup goes right
to your liver and it creates a lot of
stress on the liver and it creates a
fatty liver and it creates insulin
resistance. But when you combine this
with alcohol, maybe in certain margarita
drinks, certain sweet drinks that you
might get, you are literally taking this
to the next level and really creating a
serious problem with your brain, your
nervous system, your heart, your liver.
And then also, if you add seed oils to
it, I mean, you're just taking it to the
next level. So, what food would have
high fructose corn syrup, alcohol, and
seed oils? Well, maybe a big gulp soda,
which is high fructose corn syrup. And
then let's say you order fries with that
with the seed oils. And then maybe
you're at a restaurant where they have
alcohol and you drink that as well. I
don't even know how people survive that.
But that's a really deadly combination.
Let's talk about number three. This
thing called sodium nitrate. This is a
preservative. It's also something to
make the meat stay the right color, look
fresh. So you'll see this like in bacon,
hot dogs. And so it has a certain
toxicity level, but when you heat it, it
actually changes into something known to
cause cancer in animals. Now, of course,
the studies in human are observational,
but we do know it can create cancer or
tumors in animal studies. All right,
number four, heated carbohydrates. What
would that be? French fries, potato
chips, burnt toast. When you add heat to
a starch and of course if you deep fry
it and seed oils or let's say you just
take toast you're creating these
byproducts aldahhides or acryumide toxic
chemicals that then create more
inflammation in different parts of the
body. Not to mention this other thing
called advanced glycation end products.
When you combine a starch,
which is really kind of sugar to a
protein or a starch or sugar to a fat,
both of these situations right here, you
create a situation that when it goes in
your body, you start to really damage
the inside of the arteries, your eye,
your kidney, your brain, your nervous
system, creating a lot of oxidative
damage and inflammation. And I just want
to say one thing about seed oils because
a lot of counterarguments are seed oils
are not inherently bad in themselves.
But here's the thing. No one consumes
that oil in a cold state. They consume
it heated. You actually buy it from the
store when it's already been through a
whole chemical industrial process where
it's heated. They add chemicals like
solvents like hexane. And then you get
it as an end product already heated. And
those are the some of the details that
they forget to tell you when they say
that seed oils are essential or seed
oils are inherently not that bad because
they're vegetable oils. But here's my
question. How can they actually sit on
the shelf without being refrigerated?
Like these are very unstable, very
delicate oils. No one will consume them
in a cold state. What are you going to
just put it on your salad? No, they
actually use them for cooking, right?
And not to mention, these seed oils
incorporate into your cell membranes and
they can also negatively affect your
insulin receptors to create insulin
resistance. And I want to put a link
down below of this research on soybean
oil. They found soybean oil is more
obesogenic, which means it causes more
obesity and more diabetic, basically
creates more diabetes, than coconut oil
and fructose in mice. So, there's some
really interesting data on seed oils uh
making you fat and seed oils creating
diabetes. All right, number five,
artificial sweeteners. Right, we've been
using these for a very long time and
they have certain effects on our bodies,
but a really big effect is on our
microbiome. You can't live without your
microbiome. They help you so much and we
help them. And one thing that they don't
like is artificial sweeteners. It's
going to negatively affect your health.
Just like number six, glyphosate. What
is that? That's an herbicide. That's
Roundup ready. And because they don't
like the word GMO foods, they use
another word now called bioengineered
ingredients. Okay? So, you'll see that
on the label. The big argument that
they'll say that glyphosate is okay to
consume or be exposed to because there's
no research that says that it affects
human bodies. Well, what about our
microbiome? And this is patented also as
an antibiotic. This has been even
classified by the World Health
Organization as a probable carcinogen.
But Bear bought uh Roundup Ready from
Monsanto. And I could imagine they're
kicking themselves because of the
lawsuits they're getting in the
headaches and the problem that this is
creating worldwide. But people don't
want this in their foods. Unfortunately,
even if something says GMO free, it
doesn't mean it's glyphosate free
because they also spray a lot of this on
wheat that's not GMO to dry it out, like
three times as much. And so, we're
getting this in our bodies. Let's talk
about number seven, MSG, monos sodium
glutamate. This is something that is
injected into rodents to make them fat
because it affects the hypothalamus and
it causes them to eat a lot of food.
Now, you will hear the argument that, oh
yeah, you can't cross over that argument
to humans. It doesn't do that for
humans. In fact, the Chinese restaurant
syndrome has never been proven fully.
So, here's the thing. What does MSG
actually do? It makes things taste very,
very savory. So you have to realize this
does stimulate hunger and this is why
it's deadly to connect this with the
refined carbs. It really overstimulates
the glutamine receptors and so you can
actually have low quality food and
actually upgrade it and make it taste
better than it really is. And the reason
I know that is when I go to these
Chinese restaurants and I order it
without MSG, it's kind of flat. It's
like, you know what? I can't really eat
the whole thing. It's not as delicious.
So MSG is again a flavor enhancer. And
this is all part of making you hooked.
Let's talk about number eight.
Phosphate. Sodas. They have phosphoric
acid. This is a stimulant. It'll perk
you up. The problem is it mobilize a lot
of calcium. And if you don't have enough
vitamin K2, you can end up with arterial
calcification. And you have to be
careful with the kidneys because too
much phosphate is very corrosive and
destructive. But I'll see people just
downing cola and even small children as
well. Let's talk about number nine.
Potassium bromate. This is a dough or
bread conditioner. It's a probable
carcinogen and usually there's going to
be added sugar to that and a lot of
other things that's going to complicate
things and make things worse. So I would
highly recommend avoiding that. Now
let's talk about this right here.
synthetic flavorings. When you see the
word flavoring,
realize you're talking about a lot of
different flavorings, sometimes up to
two or even 300 different chemicals, all
combined in a certain way to make your
brain explode. It's confusing and
manipulating your brain and creating
this spike in a drop down. So, you have
to have another one. And unfortunately,
when you do these chronically, you lose
the taste for real food. It happened to
me. Like I was literally just thinking
about, okay, tonight I can't wait to
have those Doritos, right? And I would
just keep doing it and I would be in
this thing. I'd keep doing it. I
wouldn't even want real food. I could
just live on this all the time. Now, if
we take a look at what's happening now,
I don't eat that stuff anymore. I
haven't for years. When I do attempt to
eat it, just for videos and things,
because sometimes I'll have to put
something in my mouth, it's disgusting.
I'm like, how did I even get sucked into
that? But your body gets used to it. But
now I actually like real food. Now I
want to explain a really powerful simple
tool that it's a free app. It's called
Dr. Berg Junk Food Meter and you can
download it on your phone and then all
you have to do is scan a food and it'll
tell you the three main things that you
want to avoid. Sugar, starch, and seed
oils. I will put a link for this app
down below so you can check it out and
use it. Hopefully, it'll help you. Now
that we talked about the worst food in
the world, let's talk about the
healthiest food in the world with this
video right here. Check it out.
