Grass-fed beef is the biggest scam on
the planet. It's a complete lie. What
I'm going to share with you is going to
piss you off. Less than 1% of beef sold
in the US is truly grass-fed. This whole
idea of grass-fed is just filled with
loopholes all over the place. In 2016,
the USDA dropped the official definition
of grass-fed. All of the cows are
grass-fed. It's the last 3 to 6 months
where they're fed other things like
grains and some other ingredients that I
had no idea. Over 99% of all the beef
that people are buying is not fully
grass-fed, despite what it says on the
label. There is a tremendous amount of
beef sold to America from other
countries. And with a little bit of
processing, like packaging the beef, it
now becomes a product of the US. In
other words, this country of origin
labeling rule was repealed, which means
revoked for both beef and pork. Here's
just another example of a lack of
transparency where, you know, well, at
least if it's from America, it's
probably healthier when it's actually
not even coming from America. And by the
way, as a side note, did you know that
when you eat a burger from a fast food
place, the number of cows that that
hamburger comes from literally can be
over a hundred different sources because
they have this entire processing plant
where they're getting meat from all over
the place. What people need to realize
is what we're talking about is a cow
that's very sedentary, that is fatty,
and the reason why it's tender is
because it has barely any collagen. And
without collagen, it's very, very
tender. People do like marbled meat
that's tender. But what they don't want
to know about is how that animal is
raised. Because what I'm going to tell
you now is literally going to make you
fall off your chair. And it's what these
animals actually eat. You might think,
"Wow, grains. Well, it's probably a
bucket of whole grains, pretty healthy.
No, they actually feed these animals in
the feed lot something called DDGS, and
that stands for dried distillers grain
with solubles, aka the waste product
from making ethanol. They take dentorn,
which is field corn. It's inedible. You
can't eat it. What are they going to do
with this GMO waste product filled with
glyphosate? It's basically the toxic
byproduct from making ethanol. And what
I found out is because of the subsidies
taxpayers contribution to this, the cost
for one metric ton of this waste
material that is fed to the animals is
roughly
$150. Now, do you see why they can make
so much profit on this? Because what
they're trying to do is they need to put
on about 600 lb of extra weight on that
cow. And the only way they can do it is
with something so cheap.
$150 per metric ton. Crazy. So that's
the base. And then they add a little
fiber. They add limestone, some
synthetic vitamins and minerals. And
then they add something else called
monencin. It's an antibiotic.
Antibiotics are used on a regular basis
in feed lots in the US. And the reason
why they use these antibiotics is
because it increases weight gain. Even
your grass-fed beef has been given
antibiotics. Unless it says on the
label, no antibiotics. But that's not
all. They also add in the US something
called beta agonist. This is a
medication that enhances the muscle
growth to increase another 30 lbs of
muscle and it's something that mimics
adrenaline. There's been some studies
that show that that can actually
increase anxiety in humans if you
consume that food. So there's two types
of feed lots. You have one that's closed
like indoor and they have another one
that's open. Let's talk about the one
that's closed first. That animal, which
is 1,500 lb, only gets a space that is
24 square feet. If I were to ask you how
much that is, you might have to measure
it out. But let me just tell you, a
parking space that you drive your car
into is 128 square ft. So, let's compare
that. 20 to 24 ft to 128 square ft. So,
basically, it's 16 of a parking place,
not a parking lot, a parking space. So
basically you can fit six cows into one
parking space. That's what they live in
for 3 to six months. They have to make
them sedentary and to add all this cheap
food to gain the massive weight. So that
way you can make the meat marbled and
have it very tender, aka a very sick
animal. That's what you're eating. Now
the open space in the feed lot doesn't
get that much more space. They get
roughly about 150 square feet, which is
about the same size is a little bit more
than that parking space that I just
talked about, but again, not much space.
So, how do you find truly grass-fed
beef? You need to look for this 100%
grass-fed. Because if it just says
grass-fed, it doesn't mean anything. And
I highly recommend you spend a little
bit more for this higher quality of meat
because that way you support the small
farmer that seems to be squeezed out of
this marketplace. Thanks for watching
and I will see you in the next video.
