The burning you feel in your feet is not
a nerve problem. But I know you feel
tingling, burning, and numbness in your
feet, almost like you're walking on
fire. And you were told that you have a
nerve problem that must be treated with
a medication. But what you're going to
find out in this presentation is
something completely different than what
you've ever heard before. One thing that
they're always not going to talk about
is the root cause of this. Your nerves
didn't just decide to go bad, stop
working, and fail. This is not a random
thing at all. There is an underlying
cause to this. And if you have burning
in your feet, you're going to be very
glad you're watching this video right
now. So, we're talking about burning in
your feet. We're talking about a
condition called neuropathy. Usually
classified as a disease of the nerves.
But what's never explained is how you
get there in the first place. What is
actually causing this burning in your
feet? And just so you know, that problem
is literally brewing in the oven for 20
to 30 years before you even feel
anything in your feet at all. The real
problem is not in the nerve. It's the
blood vessels supplying the nerve.
Because the blood vessels supply the
fuel, the oxygen, and the nutrients. And
when the nerve doesn't get oxygen or
fuel or nutrients, it starts to become
very irritated. It can be burning or
itching or tingling. At the root of this
problem is a blood sugar problem. It's
years of high blood glucose that then
destroys the circulation. And the reason
why it shows up in your feet first is
that is the longest nerve in the body.
So it's actually showing up in the most
peripheral part of your body first. And
what's really kind of counterintuitive
about this is we have a starvation of
fuel at the nerve level, yet we have a
massive abundance of fuel in your blood.
So the body is bathed with sugar, but it
can't get access to that glucose. And
that is called insulin resistance. The
reason why that's so important to talk
about is when we get into how to correct
that, you must align the treatment
towards that and not focus on the
long-term effects and just the
management of these downstream symptoms.
If we look deeper into the nerve,
there's something really interesting.
You have a lot of these mitochondria in
the nervous system. And the mitochondria
is like the engine that takes the fuel
and allows the nerve to work. And what's
really happening, and I'm going to keep
this really, really simple, is if you
have access to the mitochondria, you get
about 32 units of energy currency per
glucose molecule. And so, as a survival
mechanism, the body no longer uses this
biochemical pathway in the mitochondria.
It uses another plan B pathway outside
the mitochondria called glycolysis, an
ancient pathway to use energy. The
problem with this is it only makes two
units of this energy, this ATP. But not
only that, there's a lot of other toxic
byproducts that this system gives. It's
kind of like a dirty engine that's
giving off a lot of extra exhaust,
lactic acid, toxicity, other byproducts.
And that is what's causing all the
irritation to the nerve because these
nerves are slowly dying because the
circulation is not getting to the
nerves. And so they eventually remove
the toes and then the foot because the
person gets something called gang green.
There's one nutrient, a natural nutrient
that you could take to switch from this
plan B back to the mitochondria. And
what is this nutrient?
vitamin B1
thamine because high blood glucose sucks
out B1 from the tissues. So with people
that have symptoms of neuropathy or
burning in the feet, they're nearly
always deficient in B1. And it's such an
amazing thing to see once they take B1
and they start feeling better, they're
just blown away how a simple vitamin can
do this. B1 is not fuel. It's not
oxygen. It is a nutrient, but it allows
the fuel and oxygen to finally work
again. But here's the big problem about
vitamin B1. Normally B1 is a water
soluble vitamin. And if we're going to
penetrate this B1 through the nerves,
which by the way have a fat layer that's
called myelin, we're going to have to
figure out some way of penetrating that.
And this is why I would recommend a very
specific type of B1 called benotamine.
Benotamine is a fat soluble vitamin B1
that goes right through that nerve and
penetrates and it starts to fix this
right through in here. So benotamine a
fats soluble B1 will allow this nerve to
start getting fuel. Number two, it
starts to decrease the byproducts, the
excessive lactic acid, and it starts to
get rid of other complications of
diabetes, not just in the nerves and the
feet, but in the eyes, in the kidneys,
in the arteries, and even in your brain.
And this whole mechanism also explains
why the burning the feet is worse
sometimes at night because blood sugar
is normally worse at night going through
at least three cycles of up and down.
That's why people feel like their feet
are on fire. And I think one of the most
important things to learn about this
condition is just about medicine in
general, the system of medicine. All
they're focusing on is managing the
symptoms, the long-term effects that are
created from root causes, but they never
look earlier into the root cause. That's
not part of medicine. Medicine's about
diagnosing something they can find. So,
they're going to do screenings. They're
going to wait until your blood pressure
starts to become high. They're going to
wait for this first symptom of
Alzheimer's or diabetes, and then
they're going to diagnose and treat. And
when you go to the doctor, if you don't
have those symptoms, you're considered
to be healthy. And unfortunately, the
elephant in the room is that these
conditions take 20 to 30 years to
develop. So unfortunately, modern
medicine doesn't get training on root
causes. They don't get training on
lifestyle changes, on diet, on
nutrition, only on clinical medicine
which relates to visible symptoms that
occur usually late stage. Now the
problem that I have is the mode of
treatment is usually drugs. Like in this
situation, it's going to be gamma pentin
which really doesn't work that much more
than a placebo. And it gives you side
effects and it doesn't even touch this
problem, this problem, this problem,
this problem. All it's doing is
decreasing the sensation of your pain
because now you're managing that
symptom. You're not correcting anything
that's related to the root cause. If we
had a fire in the building, we could cut
the fire alarm or we can actually find
where the fire is and put that out. Let
me go through exactly what I would
recommend you to do. Number one,
spenotamine. Whatever it says to take in
the bottle, I would take that times four
and spread it out through the day. Keep
this fats soluble B vitamin in your body
to saturate the nervous system so you
can heal as quickly as possible. Number
two, I highly recommend you adjust the
dietary sugar and the hidden sugar,
starch, in your diet. You must keep your
carbs below 30 grams per day. I'm
talking about the refined sugars,
refined starches. And I'd also highly
recommend avoiding any snacks,
especially late night snacks, because
that's going to keep this blood sugar
very, very high because every time you
eat, you're going to affect your blood
sugars. This is really going to help
you. I would also have foods higher in
magnesium and potassium. Another thing
that I really recommend with benotamine
is if you can also take it with
something called alphalapoleic acid.
It's another antioxidant that will just
speed up the process and allow things to
work a little bit better. And this
entire topic connects to blood sugar and
insulin resistance. And this also
includes why you can check someone's
blood sugar for many, many years and it
can keep showing normal, but it's not
picking up what's really going on deeper
in the tissues. I have a free download
that I want to give to you. This free
download is my daily routine and a
checklist. This is a routine that I use
every day to feel like I'm 18 years old
even though I'm 60 years old. And I want
to give it to you for free. And so
there's a little link down below. Click
it and definitely download that. There's
a very important video for you to watch
right now and I put it up right here.
Check it out.
