Today, we're going to talk about
fatigue. A lot of people are tired, but
you have to realize that fatigue and
being tired is a symptom. It's not the
root cause. And so, if you treat the
symptom, you're never going to get
better. And this is why so many people
taking the energy drinks and trying to
stimulate their body with more caffeine,
they just make themselves worse. If you
can identify the root cause of your
fatigue, you can easily get rid of it.
All right, number one, let's talk about
insomnia fatigue. Now, there's many
different reasons why people can't
sleep.
Maybe they're getting up several times a
night urinating. Maybe they have sleep
apnea where they can't breathe. Maybe
they have cramps in lower calves. Maybe
they have restless leg syndrome. So, the
problem with not sleeping is that it's
going to really affect the cognitive
function, especially if someone's
talking to you. You're going to have a
hard time keeping your attention because
the cognitive function's not there. The
other thing you should know about a lack
of sleep is it really in a severe way
affects your blood sugar. So, you're
going to want to snack more. You're
going to crave the wrong foods. For
insomnia, you want to go for long walks
every single day without your cell phone
in nature. And I find that I can sleep
much better after a long walk. Before
bed, I would highly recommend doing a
lot of stretches. I would also keep your
lights dimmed very nicely. But the worst
thing you can do is snack before you go
to bed. So, you have to eliminate that.
Let's go to number two, blood sugar
fatigue.
If your blood sugar is going up and down
and up and down, you are going to be
tired, but not for the reason you think.
It's really because your cells are
starving for fuel despite having a lot
of food available. If you just take a
look at a diabetic, what is a diabetic?
It's someone who has high blood glucose.
But the problem is that glucose
becomes very unavailable to the cell.
That's why a lot of diabetics are tired
because you develop this resistance to
sugar.
That's called insulin resistance. It's
the resistance to insulin. And of
course, the resistance to glucose, which
is the fuel that's supposed to give you
energy, you can't get that in. So,
you're literally starving to a certain
degree of fuel. You definitely will feel
a need to take a nap about 2 hours after
you eat, usually because you're eating
sugar or hidden sugar as starch like
pasta, rice, bread, things like that.
The simple solution for this one
is just to completely cut out all the
carbs.
And so, you just really need to go low
carb and then not eat so frequently. So,
in other words, just avoid the snacks
and you will find that your energy will
just come right up. Number three, slow
thyroid fatigue. People that have a
hypothyroid condition
are going to be tired. Why? Because the
thyroid hormones, specifically we have
T3. So, T4 converts to T3. T3 is the
active form. T3 goes into your
mitochondria. That is the energy
factory. And it controls the number of
mitochondria and the amount of ATP,
which is the energy currency of the
body. And so, certain things will be
turned off and just the necessities will
be on. Your body might turn down
temperature, so you have cold feet
because that takes a lot of energy to
heat the body. 90% of hypothyroidism
is autoimmune. Usually people know when
they have a thyroid problem, but
selenium is for the autoimmune thyroid
and usually iodine and zinc are for a
non-autoimmune thyroid problem. Next one
is histamine fatigue. Now, histamines
are a neurotransmitter. I'm not going to
get into the woods with it, but all you
need to know is certain populations have
more histamines and that can be
aggravated by certain foods that you eat
and that's going to overstimulate your
brain and make you tired. This type of
exhaustion is going to be more of like
you're irritated and you're tired. You
can't relax, but this is more like an
allergy fatigue. You might have a
thicker heavy sinus issue. You might
also feel like your blood pressure's too
low and you definitely can't sleep. The
foods that are high in histamines like
cheese, smoked meats, fermented foods,
unfortunately, all of these foods will
make you tired after you eat them. So, a
lot of people ask me, what supplements
do I recommend? Now, of course, I'm not
biased with my own high-quality
supplement line, but if you go to Amazon
and type Dr. Berg supplements,
you'll find more information. Next one,
number five, is latent virus fatigue.
Certain viruses go into the body and
they don't actually die. They go into a
dormant state. That's called a latent
state. So, with a latent virus that gets
reactivated, you're going to get a
draining of your immune system, which is
going to be very tiring. Definitely
you're going to have post-exertion
fatigue, usually 24 hours later. So, you
worked out today, you might even feel
fine, but then tomorrow you just feel
like, "Oh my gosh, I'm just like
completely exhausted." What's going to
activate this is some type of stress.
Other things that can bring it on are
low vitamin D levels. Eating too much
junk food can do it. So, with this one,
I always tell people you must do
something to reduce your stress. Whether
it's going on vacation, a lot of vitamin
D, you need to take at least 20,000 IUs
of vitamin D3. Make sure it comes with
the vitamin K2 and magnesium. Number
six, salt and potassium deficiency
fatigue. What's interesting about salt
or let's just say sodium, okay, and
potassium is that there is a pump in
your body called the sodium-potassium
pump
that actually helps you generate voltage
and electricity to power the nervous
system and the muscle.
So, if you're deficient in either sodium
or potassium, you're going to be tired,
especially in your muscles. You're going
to lack that get-up-and-go, especially
if you do any type of exertion. Why?
Because you no longer have the charge in
your battery. Your battery is dead. And
this is why when people take more
potassium, they have all this energy.
Usually between both of these, a
person's usually more deficient in
potassium than than salt unless they're
on a ketogenic diet, in which case when
you go low carb, sometimes you flush out
your salts and you need to increase your
salt or you're going to get keto
fatigue. And with keto fatigue, you're
going to feel weak and when you take
that salt, boy, it just perks you up.
But typically because people require so
much potassium, way more than salt, like
4,700 mg, usually people just aren't
consuming that much. They're probably
not eating four or five avocados a day
or big salads. So, by taking more
potassium, whether from food or an
electrolyte drink that's high in
potassium, you can dramatically increase
your energy. And the other thing you
need to know is when you're consuming a
lot of refined carbohydrates, you're
depleting your potassium right down to
zero. Next one is number seven, low
oxygen fatigue. This is fatigue that
comes from anemia. Now, there's a couple
different kinds of anemia. You have iron
deficiency anemia. You have low B12. If
you don't have enough iron, if you don't
have enough B12, protein in your blood
in that red blood cell cannot carry
oxygen.
So, if you can't have oxygen,
then the last step
of making energy in the mitochondria
can't work. In many cases with anemia,
unless you are a female that is
menstruating losing blood,
that's when I would give that person
iron from red meat or liver to liver
pills.
Most people with anemia are lacking
copper. That's right, copper because
copper helps regulate iron. But I'm just
bringing this up because it's not just a
simple answer of just take more iron to
get more energy. Too much iron is really
bad for the body, so you don't want to
do that. Even in some situations, and
I'm going to bring this up as a kind of
exception,
if you don't have enough stomach acid,
if you have heartburn, acid reflux, and
you're tired,
what you need to do is take betaine
hydrochloride as a supplement.
And probably maybe five or six of them
before each meal. Not only would your
digestive problems vanish, but you can
get your energy back. And so, I didn't
include that on the list, but lack of
stomach acid can also make you tired.
All right, number eight, low magnesium
fatigue. That's right, magnesium
deficiency can cause fatigue. We
normally think about a magnesium
deficiency as a cramp or tight muscles
or insomnia, you can't sleep. And so
many people are tired because they don't
have magnesium and they don't even have
a clue because it's really hard to test
for magnesium.
A typical blood test looks at magnesium
in the blood, but most of magnesium is
inside the cells, so they're going to
miss it if they do a typical blood test.
It's difficult to determine if you're
magnesium deficient unless you know how
to test it. Most people are deficient.
And magnesium is super important in a
lot of different things. And so, the
solution is to take magnesium glycinate.
I like taking it before bed because it
helps you relax, helps the muscles,
helps you go to sleep. Number nine, low
B1 fatigue. B1 is one of the helper
nutrients to extract energy. Eating too
much carbohydrates, they create a
deficiency of B1 and now they can't use
that fuel. That fuel is usually shunted
to make fat, but it's not used to make
energy. So, they're going to be tired.
One of the most common symptoms of a B1
deficiency is nervous energy or nervous
tension. And what's happening is they're
getting a lot of lactic acid that builds
up in the body. So, that's going to
affect the breathing because their pH is
more acidic. If someone consumes a lot
of carbs, refined carbs, or sugar
and then they feel fatigue afterwards,
suspect a B1 deficiency. The type of B1
I would recommend after correcting the
diet this is called allithiamine. It's
from garlic. All right, let's talk about
this one right here. No sun fatigue. Am
I saying that a lack of sun will cause
fatigue? Yes, absolutely. Over 50% of
the sun's energy is infrared. It goes
into the mitochondria. It helps your
mitochondria make more energy. But
without the sun, you can be very very
tired. I mean, just take a look at any
person that is inside way too much.
They're sitting in front of the
computer, they're exposed to all this
artificial light, and they don't get out
there and get sun. Wow, they're going to
be tired. Vitamin D deficiency will make
you lethargic, apathetic. A lack of
vitamin D will cause inflammation or
pain in lower back that radiates to your
hips and definitely your thigh muscles.
So, any type of pelvic discomfort or
achiness, I would suspect a vitamin D
deficiency. Number 11, mold allergies
will totally make you tired.
I have a lot of information online. I
don't want to get into the specifics,
but if you suspect mold growing in your
house, you're going to have an immune
reaction, and that is going to suck a
lot of your energy out. I just also want
to mention just inflammation in general
will make you tired. If you have
inflammation from an autoimmune disease,
I'm going to put a link down below of
what diet I recommend you should be on
for inflammation, but just in general,
you can get rid of a lot of inflammation
just by increasing your vitamin D up to
about 20 to 30,000 IUs every single day.
Make sure when you take vitamin D,
you're taking K2 and magnesium because
without that, it doesn't work. Let's go
right to number 12, long COVID. A lot of
people are tired because of long COVID.
This is an immune problem. The immune
system is constantly overworking and
it's draining a lot of your energy. It's
a feeling of being unwell, brain fog,
decreased tolerance to bright lights or
loud sounds, or even like stress in
general, you get overwhelmed very
easily. Some of the remedies I recommend
for long COVID something called NAC,
which is like a precursor to make
glutathione, which can help your liver.
A good amount of vitamin D3, magnesium
glycinate. Zinc is very important as
well. And also coenzyme Q10. And then
now let's get to number 13, low protein
fatigue. Your mitochondria, which is the
energy factory of the cells, depend on
sufficient amount of amino acids. And
this is pretty wild because this is not
a fuel problem. You might have enough
carbohydrates or fats as fuel. You just
don't have enough protein. You see, so
many things in your body require protein
that go completely beyond fuel. You need
the amino acids to allow the enzymes to
work, your ability to make antioxidants,
your ability to repair. You have all
your muscles, your tendons, your
ligaments. All of this requires amino
acids. This affects your brain because
your brain's going to feel toxic. You're
going to be tired. Or you're not going
to get enough amino acids for the
reparative actions. But one of the
biggest indicators for this is
post-exercise
fatigue. You put that much demand on the
body and you're just going to crash and
burn after you exercise. You will not
have any endurance. What this particular
person really needs is a lot more
high-quality animal protein like red
meat with every meal. This is going to
pull them out of it and also lower carb.
And then lastly, let's talk about this,
adrenal fatigue. I've done a lot of
videos on this. The adrenal gland is the
gland on top of the kidneys. You have
two of them, and they are the glands
that react to stress. One of the
specific things with adrenal fatigue is
you're just dragging all day long. Right
around like I'd say between 3:30 and
4:00, boy, you could take a nap. But
usually as the night goes on, all of a
sudden you start waking up.
So, everything is backwards with your
circadian rhythm. You're probably going
to be craving salt, and actually taking
more salt will help you. So, more sea
salt will actually calm the adrenals
down and you'll actually sleep better.
So, you might need a good electrolyte
powder with potassium to help recharge
the adrenals because with an overactive
adrenal, you'll be depleted of potassium
as well. Taking ashwagandha on a regular
basis can greatly help the adrenals. I
don't recommend doing high-intensity
exercise before bed, but I do recommend
long walks, hikes in nature without that
cell phone. So, I hope you're now much
more enlightened on fatigue and what you
can do to reverse it. But also since
you're here, I highly recommend that you
watch this video on sleep because out of
all the things that you could do to get
your energy back,
getting more sleep is at the very top of
the list. Check it out. I put it right
here.
