Today we're going to talk about the
absolute number one best meal to prevent
heart attacks and a stroke. There's
something very unique about heart
attacks and strokes. 80 to 90% of heart
attacks are clots. Now, you might think
like this plaque that builds up. No,
most of heart attacks come from clots.
And 87 to 91% of strokes also come from
clots. And the meal we're going to talk
about today really has to do with
preventing these clots. And this
information today is based on the works
from Professor Douglas Kell, genius.
Okay, I will put a link down below
referencing some of his information, but
he stumbled on something very
fascinating relating to dormant
microbes. And a lot of these dormant
microbes are actually pathogenic. Okay,
they create disease, but they're asleep
and they're waiting for an opportunity
to come back alive. I mean, even in the
winter, for example, you have all these
microbes in the soil that become frozen,
but they're going into this dormant mode
or a spore mode, and they're waiting
until the season to change where they
can come out and thrive. So, this is
what you need to know. Normally when a
clot forms whether you cut yourself on
your finger or something happens
internally you have certain things that
come in there certain proteins that form
a clot and then right after that once it
heals it dissolves with sometimes within
minutes sometimes hours sometimes a
little bit longer. This is a normal
clotting process. If we didn't have this
survival mechanism we would bleed to
death. However, in certain
circumstances, especially with heart
attacks and strokes, we have a different
type of clotting that occurs. Now, we
have dense matted strings of spaghetti
that get hardened that are very
difficult to dissolve. What you need to
know is when we're dealing with most
heart attacks and most strokes, we're
not talking about a normal clot. We're
talking about a different type of
clotting where this normal clotting
process changes over into something that
is very dysfunctional. What causes this
normal clotting process to turn over
into this dysfunctional clotting
process? The first thing in the perfect
storm is a leak from either in your gums
in your mouth or in your gut. If you
have a certain type of pathogen
that breaks down part of its outer
shell, okay, or they call it the outer
wall, that's called an endotoxin. Okay,
endotoxin.
And all it takes is the tiniest amount
of this endotoxin from this pathogen to
cause this conversion from a normal clot
to an abnormal clot. Even when they do
an evaluation with calcium in your
arteries, they might find soft plaquing
in that plaquing they find many times
this endotoxin which again it's just a
little tiny piece of a pathogen. We also
have excessive iron. What you need to
know about iron is that your body has
all these mechanisms to tightly control
iron because if there's too much iron,
your pathogens will just thrive like
crazy. Whereas we need oxygen to live.
Pathogens live on iron. And so there's
this battle between the good bacteria
and the bad bacteria fighting for iron.
And if there's too much free iron, that
can feed this endotoxin and amplify it.
In fact, that free iron can actually
wake up these dormant microbes and
create more clotting. And this is why
people that have certain genetic
problems with too much iron, they're at
risk for heart attacks and strokes and
inflammation. You need to be cautious
about taking too much iron, especially
as you age and you're at more at risk
for this problem and especially if you
have endotoxins. So, where does this
extra iron come from? Well, a lot of
times it comes from fortified foods.
They fortify cereal, bread, pasta with
this iron. Okay? Now, you also have iron
from your food like in red meats. That's
the iron that our body can really use to
go into the blood cell and our muscle
tissue. Also, from the supplements that
people take, I would never recommend
someone taking a supplement with iron,
even if they're anemic. Instead, I would
probably have them take a heem type of
iron from either red meat or from liver,
something like that, but not the type of
iron that's in most of the supplements,
especially the one a day. And I also do
not recommend that you cook in iron
skillets. As a side note, when you drink
alcohol, that also increases more iron
in our bodies. So, you have to be
careful with that as well. Now, let's
talk about the stress. When you go
through stress, you increase adrenaline.
Adrenaline takes this to the next level.
This will really supercharge or 10x the
amplification of these pathogens in
relationship to being able to consume
more iron. Because if you think about
it, adrenaline is a stress. And stress
shuts down your own immune system and
allows these microbes to actually be out
of balance and start to grow more. And
this is why even if you take a steroid,
which is kind of a synthetic version of
cortisol, which is another stress
hormone, that can really take your
immune system and just completely turn
it off. This is why when someone goes
through stress, the risk of dying from a
heart attack goes up. sometimes up to
2,000% especially after severe stress or
grief from the loss of a loved one. Now,
I do want to mention a couple other
things about this leaky gum and leaky
gut situation. We need to know what
causes this leak in the first place.
Now, with your gut, it could be gluten.
That's the protein that we can't really
digest too well in certain grains.
Alcohol,
smoking, seed oils are very corrosive
and they create like a rusting effect on
our tissues. Alter processed foods,
refined sugars, refined starches
actually feed these microbes, especially
the pathogens.
NSAIDs, that's for pain that can
actually destroy the lining of the
tissues and especially antibiotics.
Now, let's talk about the perfect anti-
clotting meal to prevent all of this.
You know, when you think about it, most
people think if we're talking about a
meal to prevent a heart attack or a
stroke, they're immediately going to
think, "Oh, we have to go low
cholesterol. We need to consume less
saturated fats, right?" That is
definitely not what I recommend. And
that is based on some past outdated
information that is completely untrue.
And if you have any attention on this
cholesterol connection to heart attacks,
I put a link down below uh of a video
that will really help you sort that out.
So, now let's get into the perfect anti-
clotting meal. The first thing I'm going
to talk about is the protein for this
meal. We want a protein that doesn't
have necessarily excessive amounts of
iron. And out of all the protein that
would be the best for that, it would be
the wild caught salmon. Now, you can do
other fatty fish, but wild caught salmon
is one of the proteins with lower iron,
but it's also the highest in omega-3
fatty acids, which is really good for
preventing clotting because it thins the
blood. It reduces inflammation in the
arteries. And salmon does have some
iron, but it definitely doesn't compare
to red meat. So, let's pair this salmon
with a very specific type of salad that
involves arugula. Rugula is very unique
because it has the most nitric oxide.
Now, I didn't talk about nitric oxide in
the first section of this video, but I
want to let you know that nitric oxide
is a super powerful anti- clotting
compound. And this will also help if you
have high blood pressure. And the second
thing that has the most nitric oxide is
beets. So, if we add the beet to the
arugula, we have a very powerful anti-
clotting salad. Now, let's not stop
there. Let's add some extra virgin olive
oil, which has really key polyphenols,
which bind with iron and help to lower
iron. Okay. Not to mention, polyphenols
are very anti-inflammatory.
And plus, extra virgin olive oil will
help to decrease blood pressure if you
have it. Then if we add some apple cider
vinegar to that, we can tighten any type
of leakiness in our tissues, especially
if it's in the colon. So apple cider
vinegar can help do that. Now, if we add
some garlic to that salad or maybe even
put it over the salmon, now we're really
in business of supporting the
cardiovascular system because we're
going to thin the blood. We're going to
add polyphenols to also bind with that
extra iron if you have any. And garlic
also is a powerful anti- pathogenic
remedy. So that will help with any
microbes that are in your body that
shouldn't be there. Okay. So this is the
salad that goes with the salmon. Okay.
If we add a little sauerkraut, just a
little bit, maybe like a fourth of a
cup, then we're going to add lactic acid
bacteria, which actually binds with
these endotoxins and helps neutralize
them. Now, there's other ways to get
lactic acid. You can do a little
kombucha tea. You can add the juice from
pickles, for example. So, sauerkraut is
not the only way to get lactic acid. But
let's not stop there. Let's add some
more polyphenols to bind with the excess
iron because the free iron is really at
the core of this clotting problem. So if
we added either green tea or black tea,
we can bind up some of that iron. If we
also add a little dark chocolate at the
end. Now you can either get the 85% or
90% dark chocolate and add that to the
meal just a little bit which can
actually bind this iron because it's
loaded with polyphenols. But also, dark
chocolate is loaded with magnesium,
which will also help the arteries and
the heart because heart problems are
really related to too much calcium and
not enough magnesium. Magnesium is one
of the best things for atrial
fibrillation and also to help lower
blood pressure. You can even take this
dark chocolate powder and put it in your
coffee in the morning. That's what I do.
Just a little bit, dissolve it up and
drink that down for the polyphenols.
after you've eaten the meal. Okay, go
for a 10 minute to or a 20 minute
postmeal walk while you breathe through
your nose. Nasal breathing increases
nitric oxide and actually enhances the
oxygen and exercise itself can help
dissolve clots, not to mention help your
blood sugars be balanced better, not to
mention increase more oxygen into the
body. And so the combination of this
meal with this exercise is going to
greatly reduce your risk of both heart
attacks and strokes. All right. Now that
you understand a little bit more about
clots, the next most important thing to
really learn about is the powerful
effects of magnesium on the
cardiovascular system. And for that
information, I put this video up right
here. Check it out.
