Today we're going to talk about how to
never get a kidney stone. Then we're
going to roll into 20 scientifically
proven tips to never get a kidney stone.
Now the question you might say is, "What
do I know about a kidney stone? What
makes me an expert?" Well, I had one. It
was the most painful thing of my life.
It was a rude awakening of a severe
abdominal deep pain that felt like
someone literally took a knife and
stabbed me into the kidneys. I couldn't
get any relief. I was like, "Honey,
honey, wake up. You got to take me to
the emergency room. I I am dying." And
she's like, "Can I wait till morning?"
I'm like, "No, drive me now." So, we go
to the emergency room. They put me on
morphine, put a catheter in. It was a
nightmare. And I've never experienced
that much pain in my life. Then two
weeks later, I'm jogging. I come home. I
have to use the bathroom.
When I am urinating, I am literally
peeing blood out. I'm freaking out. I'm
like, "What the heck is going on?"
Apparently, that kidney stone had sharp
edges and it was just tearing up and
cutting up my kidney. Now, if you're at
risk for a kidney stone or you had a
kidney stone, you are going to be super
glad that you watch this video because
when you do a search online or watch all
these videos, it's going to give you all
of these solutions. It's going to tell
you all these series, but the question
is, what is that one thing that is the
most important thing to focus on? If you
understand what that is, everything else
will make sense. And I wish I would have
known this when I had a kidney stone. I
didn't even learn this until just a few
weeks ago. So, this is going to be super
relevant information. Okay? Most kidney
stones are calcium oxalate stones. So,
it's a combination of calcium with the
oxalate and it builds up in the kidney.
Now, sometimes there's a uric acid
stone, sometimes there's a stone made
out of phosphorus, but it doesn't matter
because the solution is going to be the
same thing. It's going to be this thing
right here. So, when you do research on
a kidney stone, they might talk about
citrates or citric acid, like lemon
juice, because that will help dissolve
the calcium part. But you also have to
realize that your body makes citrates.
And a lot of people that have kidney
stones go to the doctor, they do a urine
test, and they find low citrates because
your body apparently is not making them
for some reason. We're going to explain
why. Now, the next thing you'll hear is
you have to drink a lot of fluids, like
2 and 1/2 lers of fluid a day. And why
is that? Because if you're dehydrated,
then what happens is you get this super
concentrated calcium oxalate and then it
forms a stone. But if you can keep the
urine diluted enough, then you
potentially won't ever develop this
stone. So that's another thing that they
recommend. And yes, that's important.
But there's certain people that drink a
lot of fluid that still get stones.
Okay? So it's important, but it's not
the most important thing to focus on.
Then we get number three, oxalates.
These are things in foods that can build
up in the body and create arthritis.
They can form with calcium to turn into
a kidney stone. So they not only come
from certain food, your body can make
them as well. Now most people had the
microbe maybe when they were a kid, but
then they got an antibiotic that killed
that microbe that actually eats
oxalates. So a lot of people no longer
have that microbe to help eat oxalates.
And that could be one of the reasons why
they have higher levels of oxalates in
the body. But the foods that are high in
oxalates would be almonds, almond flour,
spinach for sure, chocolate, kiwi,
beets, Swiss chard, and other nuts and
beans. So, if you go to a kidney
specialist that deals with kidney
stones, they'll have a little brochure
and they'll say avoid uh foods high in
oxalates. Number four, vitamin K2.
Vitamin K2 helps keep the calcium out of
the soft tissues, out of the joints, out
of the arteries. And there is some data
that shows that it may help prevent
calcium from accumulating in the kidney
and other tissues. But there's not a lot
of data and they don't really know if
it's specifically going to help remove
calcium from the kidney. But there is a
little bit of data that talks about
vitamin K2 keeping the calcium in the
bone and in the teeth. There's also
information on your pH of your urine
that if your urine is too acid, that can
create more of a tendency to get a
stone, too. So, people will tell you to
alkalize the urine to reduce the risk of
certain stones, especially like the uric
acid stones. One way they do it is with
citrates, lemon juice, things like that.
But then we get to this topic of vitamin
D which makes things extremely
interesting because really the only
toxic effect of vitamin D when you take
large amounts is kidney stones. So
what's going on with that? Is it the
high vitamin D that's causing kidney
stones in the general population? Well,
when you understand what this is, this
will make a lot of sense. This
particular thing has a super strong
binding capacity for oxalates. In other
words, it will combine to oxalates way
more than calcium will bind to oxalates.
And then when this does connect to
oxalates, it doesn't really form a
stone. Let me give you another powerful
clue. It's a co-actor for vitamin D.
That means it's a helper. It's an
essential thing that allows vitamin D to
work. And if that particular thing is
deficient in your body, vitamin D is not
going to work that well. So you might
absorb calcium in the intestines and
into the blood, but that's where it
stops. It doesn't then go that next step
into the bone or the teeth. So then it
builds up in the blood and it trickles
off into the kidney. And this is the
perfect storm for a kidney stone. All
because you're deficient in this thing
right here. And this also explains when
someone has a large amount of vitamin D
and they don't take this thing right
here, which I'm going to explain
shortly. What happens is they get a
massive buildup of calcium that only
goes halfway. It never ends up in the
bone or the teeth. And on top of that,
this controls calcium inside your cells.
There is a lot of different uh health
conditions that involve calcium building
up inside the energy factory, the
mitochondria, different cells that end
up causing damage to the cells and that
leads to heart attacks and things like
that. There's even medications that are
called calcium channel blockers to help
lower blood pressure. This thing is a
natural calcium channel blocker, okay?
Not just with kidney stones, but for a
lot of other issues. All right, the next
thing is phosphorus. I'm not going to
get too into the woods with phosphorus,
but all you need to know is there is a
certain type of phosphorus stone that
can develop. Well, guess what? If you
have enough of this thing right here,
you will not develop a stone out of
phosphorus. And then the next thing is
if you have enough of this, you also
will increase your citrates in your
urine. The very thing that keeps this
calcium dissolved and prevents the
connection with oxalates. This
particular thing also increases the pH,
makes it more alkaline to prevent a uric
acid stone. It's also antis-pspasmotic.
Now, think about this. When I got the
kidney stone, it was like there was a
Charlie horse in my kidney. I wish I had
this, which is the antidote to anything
going in a spasm. And it also has an
anti- crystallization effect. So in
other words, it prevents the stone from
developing sharp edges. It slows the
formation of a stone. It makes the stone
slippery enough so it doesn't have
velcro on it and it doesn't get stuck in
your kidneys. It helps to decrease the
parathyroid hormone. All you need to
know is if your parathyroid hormone is
high, then that means that it's going
after your calcium from your bone and
taking it out and putting in your blood,
making things worse. Well, guess what?
This thing lowers that. It works in
conjunction with vitamin D to help
regulate calcium and keep the calcium
going in the bone and not in the kidney.
And this is
magnesium.
Magnesium. Interesting. Magnesium is
hands down the most important thing to
focus on to avoid kidney stones. And if
you have a kidney stone, you should be
focusing on magnesium. Now, we're going
to get into what to do to never have
kidney stones. You can also use this if
you have a kidney stone to help you
dissolve the kidney stone. But we're
going to talk about 20 scientifically
proven tips. Number one, magnesium
glycinate. 300 to 400 milligrams a day.
Now, if you're getting enough magnesium
from your diet, you don't need to do
this unless you know you're at risk for
a kidney stone. Maybe your parents had
it or there's some genetic
predisposition.
But the glycinate part, which is glycine
connected to magnesium, is really good
for sleeping, but it's also good to
increase glutathione, which is an
antioxidant that can actually help your
kidneys. So, this is why I recommend
magnesium glycinate with lemon water,
okay? Okay. On a regular basis. So, the
combination of these two together are
going to be really good. And you can
even get this in a dissolvable powder
form as well. Now, one thing you might
want to think about with lemon water is
just put it in mineral water. Why?
Because mineral water is a good source
of magnesium. So, that could be very
helpful. Number three, leafy greens. The
chlorophyll, the green stuff in leafy
greens, has a root of magnesium.
Avocados are high in magnesium. Pumpkin
seeds have a good amount of magnesium,
but a lot of times when you're looking
at your foods and calculating how much
magnesium you're getting, it's not as
much as you might think. You might have
to increase it to create a therapeutic
dosage. Number five, should you lower
your oxalates in food? Yes, they're in
spinach, almonds, almond flour,
chocolate. But what's interesting, these
other foods, these things right here,
spinach, almonds, and chocolate are also
super high in magnesium. And magnesium
will bind with the oxalates. It's almost
like nature has provided the antidote to
the poison or the toxin. I'm not 100%
convinced that you're going to get a
kidney stone from spinach, almonds, or
chocolate because it's high in the
antidote. But just to be sure, maybe you
do want to lower them. All right, number
six. I did mention phosphorus.
Phosphorus is something we need in
normal healthy food. You're going to be
fine. But when you start to have junk
food, especially colas, you're going to
get a lot of phosphoric acid. That
artificial type of phosphorus is not
good for your kidneys. It's it's not
good to help you avoid a stone. It can
create all sorts of problems, not just
with kidney stones, but other issues.
So, for that reason, I would just avoid
junk food in cola. Right. Number seven,
if you ever take vitamin D, also take
magnesium. Or if you buy a vitamin D
supplement, make sure it just has
magnesium in it. As long as you have
enough of the co-actors, magnesium,
vitamin K2, zinc, it is going to help
protect you against this calcium uh
overload in the body. All right, number
eight, avoid calcium carbonate.
Literally on all of the big brand
multi-vitamin minerals, the first
ingredient is this limestone calcium
carbonate. You don't want to load up
your body with a lot of calcium. it
potentially could trigger a kidney
stone. This is why I recommend getting
your calcium from food like cheese or
dairy, but not from rocks or limestone,
especially not as the first ingredient
in these supplements. Number nine, drink
2.5 L of fluid per day. Okay, I do
recommend you do that, but make sure
it's not soft water. Okay, if you have a
water softener, they're taking out the
minerals. Hard water is calcium and
magnesium. So, the risk for kidney
stones decrease when you drink hard
water like well water or spring water.
But regardless of what type of water you
drink, if you keep your uh liquids 2.5
L, it's very unlikely you're going to
develop a stone, especially if you're
doing all these other things. And number
10, potassium foods are important. The
foods that are high in magnesium are
also high in potassium, so you should be
okay on that. But potassium is an
alkalizer. It will help prevent the
formation of the uric acid stone, but it
also helps you retain citrates. So
that's another benefit from having
enough potassium. 11. Diabetics are at
high risk for kidney stones. And having
the body too far one way or another can
create a problem with different stones,
but you do want to lower your carbs if
you want to decrease your risk of
getting a stone. Diabetics type two
usually are very uh severely magnesium
deficient. And even having a lot of
sugar in your body, whether it's coming
from the diet or another way, is going
to increase the demand for magnesium and
even deplete magnesium and other
nutrients. All right, number 12,
fermented foods. That may help you
recede the gut microbiome with that
microbe that can help eat oxalates
potentially. But there is some
interesting research on consuming
fermented foods or probiotics and
decreasing your risk for kidney stones.
And number 13, avoid high fructose corn
syrup. You just want to avoid all junk
food because that can increase your risk
for uric acid stones. Number 14 is
decreasing alcohol. Alcohol also puts a
lot of stress on the kidney and the
liver creating a potential for getting a
stone. And then number 15, make sure you
have enough hydrochloric acid in your
stomach because as we get older, we lose
the stomach acid and that means we can't
absorb minerals like we used to like
magnesium. So how do you know if you
have low stomach acid? Typically you're
going to have indigestion, gas, a lot of
bloating, maybe acid reflux or gird. The
solution is something called betane
hydrochloride to acidify the stomach and
that will not just solve those symptoms
but help you absorb more nutrients like
magnesium. The more chronic stress that
you're under, the more magnesium you are
going to be deficient in. So in other
words, if you live a really stressful
life, you need a lot more than this too,
especially if you have problems
sleeping. Number 17, the more sweating
you do, maybe you exercise or you just
sweat a lot, that can also cause a
magnesium deficiency just from the sweat
loss. And this also means if you do a
lot of jacuzzi's or sauna, you will lose
more magnesium in that process. And then
if you overtrain, if you do a lot of
heavy lifting or a lot of exercise or
marathons, in order to make energy, you
need magnesium to make this thing called
ATP. So, the demand for magnesium is
super high for an athlete or especially
if someone's overtraining. You need more
magnesium to run those little motors.
And then there's also medications that
deplete magnesium. Diuretics are a big
one. Antibiotics, steroids, birth
control pills, and the last thing on the
list is fluoride. Fluoride in your water
can deplete magnesium. Now that you
understand more about kidney stones, if
you really want to know what magnesium
does in the body, watch this video right
here. Check it out.
