What do you do if you're suddenly
diagnosed with stage 4 colon cancer?
You're scared. You get all these
different opinions thrown at you. You're
in a state of confusion. Today, I want
to give you some relief on that. I'm not
going to get into statistics. I want to
get into strategies. And one of the
biggest questions that people ask their
doctors when they have cancer is, "What
do I eat?" And the answer is usually,
"It doesn't really matter." And that is
so far from the truth because you can
either feed cancer or you can stress
cancer or starve cancer. Cancer itself
is very sick. It's living on the edge.
And so what we want to do is we want a
strategy that leverages everything you
do to overcome that. So we'll talk about
nutrition. We'll talk about foods. I
also want to talk about prolonged
fasting because some people can't do
that. They have too much weight loss. So
then what do they do? I have a solution
for that. You really need to know also
the four main causes of colon cancer and
what's unique about colon cancer. So,
I'm going to cover that as well. One
thing about cancer and other chronic
diseases is it does not happen
overnight. It takes decades to develop.
And so, if you don't have cancer and
you're watching this video, make mental
notes on what I'm going to say because
this is going to be very important to
avoid cancer. Let's talk about what's
unique about cancer. Number one, cancer
is heterogeneous. What does that mean?
That means that cancer is not one
disease. There's many different types of
cancer which relate to different genetic
weaknesses, to using different fuels, to
affecting the immune system differently.
That is why you cannot use one single
diet for all cancers. But I'm going to
show you what you should be using. I
already mentioned this right here.
Cancer is very, very sick. It's living
on the edge, but we want to know its
weaknesses. And one really big weakness
is this right here. They're
metabolically inflexible. What do I mean
by that? It means they have a very
difficult time going from one fuel to a
different fuel source. So going from
glucose to ketones or fat, they have a
difficult time doing that. The great
majority of the population is not
metabolically flexible. In fact, with my
own body and my own health, I was not
very metabolically flexible, I had to
correct that. So, we will cover that as
well. We want to stress it out and keep
pressure on that cancer. So, it has no
resources, so it can't keep growing and
taking over. As soon as the cancer
finally adapts to a certain diet, we
switch it over to a different diet. The
other thing that's unique about cancer
is that the origin of cancer comes from
damaged mitochondria.
Mitochondria are the energy factories of
the cell. What happens with cancer is
when the mitochondria becomes damaged.
As a survival mechanism, the body will
then switch to an ancient pathway called
glycolysis. This is a plan B with fuel
for cancer. When the cancer cell goes
into this mode here, it cannot produce
very much energy. So what does it do? it
starts going crazy and starts growing
really fast to hog a lot of your energy
and steal your resources. That's what
happens with cancer. But to compensate,
they're hogging a lot of glucose. This
is why in a PET scan, they're scanning
areas of the body where there's this
high level of glucose. That's usually
where the cancer cell is. So, the goal
is not necessarily to starve the cancer,
okay? And I'm going to tell you why.
It's to stress the cancer,
okay? Stress it out to the point where
it can't keep growing. It starts
shriveling up and then it dies off. This
is why we're going to rotate the diets.
And also, I highly recommend you do many
things at once to deal with this cancer,
not just one single thing. Whether you
decide to do chemo, radiation, or not,
I'm not here to tell you what to do. I'm
just giving you additional data because
with cancer, it's desperate and it will
do all sorts of things to overcome the
barriers. Even when you get chemo or
radiation therapy, you'll usually kill
the majority of cancer, but the cancer
cells that don't die become stronger and
they can come back and now the chemo
doesn't work anymore. So now let's cover
where does cancer actually come from.
Number one, chronic insulin resistance.
This is why a diabetic for example is
more at risk for cancer than other types
of conditions because of this insulin
resistance where the body can't really
absorb insulin. So the pancreas makes
more initially and it starts making more
and more. So all this extra insulin acts
like a growth factor. It can make things
grow like tumors. When you have insulin
resistance, this is where you get
metabolic inflexibility. And also on the
flip side, if you want to correct
metabolic inflexibility, you have to
correct insulin resistance. This is why
going on a low carb ketogenic diet is so
so important. Number two, chronic
inflammation.
Cancer travels or migrates into areas of
inflammation.
Inflammation is a state where you don't
have much oxygen. Let's take a smoker
for example, right? If someone's a
chronic smoker, they're going to create
a lack of oxygen in their lungs because
of all the damage in the scar tissue.
Number three, chronic microbiome
disruption. If someone has a history of
damage in the microbiome from junk
foods, antibiotics,
they're going to be more susceptible to
getting cancer because the microbes
really protect you against cancer in
many different ways, which I'm going to
cover a little bit of that in this
presentation as well in a bit. And then
we have number four, chronic toxicity.
You know, this could be alcohol, could
be smoking, pesticides, insecticides,
herbicides, fungicides, it could be many
different things that are toxic, but
it's the chronic exposure to toxicity.
So, of course, the more you combine
these, the more you're going to get
cancer. Now, what's interesting is all
of these things here are the root causes
of mitochondrial damage. Now, some
people say, "Well, what if I'm
genetically susceptible?" Yeah, you
might be, but it also takes
environmental things to push it over the
edge. Just because you have a genetic
weakness does not mean you're going to
get cancer. I want to just talk a little
bit about the colon for a second. Colon
cells. Okay? Because colon cells are
very unique in that they will get their
fuel from something called butyrate. And
butyrate is a chemical that comes from a
microbe eating fiber and then they
produce this chemical called butyrate.
And that's like the primary fuel for the
colon cell. And so butyrate strengthens
the lining. It helps feed the colon.
It's anti-inflammatory.
And this is where people get, you know,
oh, you need to consume more fiber to
prevent cancer. But there's a paradox
here. Okay, fiber can also make things
worse. Fiber can actually inflame your
colon. Fiber can make you bloated. And
this is why people that get bloating and
SIBO, it's called small intestinal
bacteria overgrowth, do very well with
the carnivore diet, which is like no
fiber, no plants, no nuts, no beans, no
grains, anything. Okay. If you had a
history of antibiotics starting as a
child or maybe you were never breastfed,
so you didn't have those normal microbes
from the mother, that can be a problem
later in life because now the microbes
are not balanced in a way to deal with
the fiber. And a lot of people, they
don't have the microbes to even break
down the fiber. So this is why you can
have two people eat the exact same
thing. One person feels like they're
pregnant, the other person is just fine.
It's all about the microbes and what
microbes you have and where those
microbes are located. And I have a lot
of videos on that topic and I will put
some links down below. Now, the one
thing you need to know, the worse the
cancer is as far as prognosis, the more
you need to do what's called prolonged
fasting, because prolonged fasting gives
the cancer cells no fuel and a lot of
stress. And I've had people do it up to
like even 30 to 40 days and actually get
rid of their cancer. So what can you do?
The fasting mimicking diet. It mimics
fasting as far as the results because
you are consuming some calories between
700 to a little bit over a,000 calories
a day, but you're going low protein,
low carb, and low fat. If you don't have
cancer, you should start doing smaller
prolong fasting cycles, whether it's
three days or 5 days every so often
because that's one of the most powerful
things to kill cancer. Cancer cannot
live in a fasting state. A couple other
really important things to add to the
mix are high doses of vitamin D3,
minimally 30,000 IUs of vitamin D3. But
vitamin D is the most important nutrient
for your immune system. It's also going
to help support the mitochondria. Now,
if you can be outside in the sun, that
would be awesome as well because the sun
doesn't just give you vitamin D, but it
can give you other things, too, like
infrared, which actually is going to
heal the cells from a different angle.
and also oxygen to get as much oxygen as
you can whether it's a hyperbaric
chamber or it's basically exercise
walking very important because cancer
doesn't like oxygen
okay so now let's talk about
this rotating diet and just so you know
everything that I say I'm going to
detail in a download for you so you'll
have that all in writing so you don't
have to write any of this down for your
first meal it might be vegetable soup
with good amount of salt in there. And
then you might add some olive oil or
avocado oil, coldressed, very important.
Your second meal might be steamed
zucchini, spinach with a small portion
of olives or an avocado, and that's
pretty much what you can eat. Now,
you'll have electrolytes and
supplements, but it's not a lot of food,
but it's something. And the reason why
you're going low fat is in an advanced
state of cancer.
It's not just glucose that that cancer
can survive on. It can also survive on
fats and ketones. It'll use those as
well. So this first diet is basically
just kind of really restricting the
resources and the available foods for
that cancer to live on. But it's only 3
to 5 days. But you're not going to do
fish, meat, or eggs. You're not going to
do cheese. And you're definitely not
going to do grains or sugar. After 3 to
5 days, you're going to go into phase 2.
And phase 2 is between 7 and 14 days.
This is pretty much going to support
your colon, and it's going to be
moderate protein, moderate fat. One fat
that you can have is the omega-3 fats
from fish oil, like especially cive oil.
You can do that. And then you're going
to control your carbohydrates. All the
foods that I'm going to recommend have
various things that actually help reduce
cancer. So they have polyphenols,
different things in them. So all these
ingredients will help support the
reduction of cancer in different ways.
Now phase three is for 3 to 5 days.
Okay, a little bit shorter, but now
we're going to actually increase the
protein. We'll keep the fat moderate.
Now, why don't we go high in the fat?
Because anytime you have advanced stage
any type of cancer, that's when the
cancer can start living off of ketones,
not ketones from your own fat. It's two
different types of ketones. So, I'm not
going to get into specific of that, but
you don't have to worry about the
ketones from fasting. Just have to worry
about going too high with the fat. So,
now we're getting into 6 to 8 ounces and
then moderate protein and we're going to
go low carb. So, what's going to happen?
and the cancer is going to start to want
to adapt to that, but we're going to
then switch it after 3 to 5 days. So,
we're just going to take these three
things and keep rotating them and
rotating them and not give the cancer a
chance to adapt. That's what the
strategy is. Some key nutrients, vitamin
D3, zinc, omega-3 fatty acids,
polyphenols, turmeric, cruciferous
vegetables, herbs and spices are good.
Green tea is going to be very important.
Fermented vegetables like sauerkraut if
you can tolerate it. We're going to
support the body. We're going to support
the mitochondria. We're going to support
the immune system. We're going to
support your muscle. We're going to fix
fermentation. And of course, I need to
give you a disclaimer. Check with your
doctor before implementing any of this.
But I think most doctors will look at
this and think, "Wow, this makes common
sense. I don't see anything that would
interfere with whatever treatment
they're giving you." I have a free
download that I want to give to you.
This free download is my daily routine
in a checklist. This is a routine that I
use every day to feel like I'm 18 years
old even though I'm 60 years old. And I
want to give it to you for free. And so,
there's a little link down below. Click
it and definitely download that. Now,
for those of you that have cancer or
don't have cancer, the million-dollar
question is, how do you fix this right
here, which is probably one of the most
common things that people have that
create the most problems, chronic
insulin resistance? And for that
information,
it's right in this video right here.
Watch this right now. Check it out.
