Dr. Berg here again. Today we're going
to talk about seven dangerous nighttime
bad habits that you need to avoid. Let's
start with number one. This is one that
I think people know. The junk food
carbs. I'm talking about the bread,
pasta, cereal, crackers, biscuits,
things like that. And of course, sugar
right before bed. There's something that
happens that really can throw off your
sleep cycles. And the main hormone that
works at night in little spikes called
growth hormone gets blunted with this
rise in blood sugar. Growth hormone is
the main fat burning hormone. It's the
hormone that helps you repair the
tissues, especially protein. It's the
hormone that actually helps you gain
muscle mass and has a lot to do with
repair. And if you're going to shut that
thing down with glucose, it can't work.
And so that's one thing you need to
know, especially if you're trying to
lose weight. Let's say you had this
incredible workout during the day. Well,
you just nullified the results with that
sugar right before bed. The other thing
that happens when you eat sugar is it
creates a spike in blood sugar.
Typically, you're not eating through the
night, right? This is the time that you
fast and then people wake up and have
breakfast fast. They break the fast and
then usually they eat three meals with
some snacks and then they fast again at
night. But if you're having sugar before
bed, you are creating a roller coaster
in blood sugar. What do you think that
might do to your sleep? The purpose of
sleep is basically to help you detoxify
and actually clean up the body during
this period of rest. And so you may find
yourself getting up through the night,
especially at 2:00, maybe 3:00, and it
can just ruin your sleep. And then also
in the morning, a lot of times people
will have something called the dawn
phenomena, which you have this spike in
blood sugar in the morning. That has to
do with the liver making more sugar. The
big problem with this is the next day,
okay? You don't have the energy that you
want. You wake up feeling groggy. You're
feeling irritated. And anytime you have
poor sleep, it's going to affect your
blood sugar as well. So, you're going to
be looking around for something sweet
and something to snack on if you didn't
get a good night's sleep. And so you're
setting yourself up for this entire
pattern of going off your program,
having a difficult time sticking to, you
know, just keeping off carbs. It makes
it very difficult. Number two, using
screens or lights, especially blue or
any light, 2 hours before you go to bed.
You have to realize there's a hormone
that actually puts pressure in your body
to go to sleep, and that's called
melatonin. Melatonin is suppressed with
light, especially blue light. The
function of melatonin is not just to
help you go to sleep. Melatonin is a
very powerful antioxidant.
It's even more important than
glutathione as far as detoxification
and in helping repair DNA. Not to get
into anything technical, but they
measure kind of the intensity of a light
by something called lux. And I want you
to think of lux as kind of like how
bright the light is. All it takes is
eight lux, just a tiny bit of light to
suppress melatonin. Your smartphone is
about a 30 lux. And so you're really
suppressing a lot of melatonin. If
you're in front of your cell phone, it's
going to take longer and longer to get
into the restful sleep cycles. And so we
don't get the full benefits of hormone
restoration, repair, DNA repair. And on
top of that, this blue light suppresses
the deep delta wave sleep and also
something called the REM sleep. And if
you even think about like shift workers,
it's really, really hard on their body.
Regular shift work is even considered a
probable carcinogen in what it does to
the immune system specifically of the
breast, the prostate, and the colon.
Trying to sleep with just a moderate
amount of light is mimicking metabolic
syndrome just by this light interfering
with your sleep. It's very interesting.
The best thing to do is about an hour
before you go to bed, dim the lights.
You can wear blue blockers. that can
help, but it's really best to avoid not
only the computer screens and things
like that, but also any bright lights.
Keep things as dim as possible. Number
three, using alcohol to fall asleep.
Alcohol is tricking you into going to
sleep, but you're not really sleeping.
Your body is not focused on repairing,
rejuvenating, detoxifying at all. It has
to detoxify the alcohol. Thus, the
hangovers that people feel when they get
up from drinking alcohol. The real big
thing with alcohol is that you just do
not get the cleaning, the toxification
or the repair of your body like you
should, thus not getting the benefits of
sleep. Alcohol also raises cortisol,
adrenaline. It puts stress signals into
the body. It tends to also deplete
electrolytes, but especially depleting
you of vitamin B1, which then the next
day you're going to have anxiety. You're
going to have this nervous tension. You
can't relax. B1 is all about brain nerve
calm, feeling restful. Couple things I
recommend to do instead. Take a
magnesium glycinate in warm water and
sip that before you go to bed because
the magnesium will help relax the
muscles and cortisol, but the glycinate
part of magnesium glycinate will
increase GABA in the brain and really
help you sleep. And maybe kombucha tea
might also help you because it mimics
the texture of beer. It has actually a
slight bit of alcohol, but it's very,
very, very insignificant. Don't use
alcohol at night. Now, in the morning,
totally fine. And I'm being very
sarcastic. Let's get to number four.
Late night junk food. I'm talking about
mainly the seed oils like fried foods.
It could also be chips. A lot of times
people need salt before bed and they
consume chips and crackers, salty
popcorn. But if it's potato chips fried
in grease, the seed oils are
inflammatory. And when you go to bed
after you ate something either fried or
with seed oils, it's going to be really
hard in the gallbladder. You're going to
go to bed bloated. Your digestion is
going to send signals to your brain,
it's time to wake up, and it's not going
to help you go to sleep. So, you will
not be able to sleep restful if you're
going to bed with a bloated stomach with
seed oils. The seed oils are also going
to affect your gallbladder and bile duct
to the point where you might feel kind
of nauseous, bloated, burping before
bed. I've been there, done that. I have
the t-shirt. I used to live on fried
foods more than most people. And so if
you're eating a lot of oxidative seed
oils, you're kind of neutralizing this
melatonin to the point where it's going
to lower the effect of what it's
supposed to do, help you detoxify and
repair your brain and body. One thing
that I would highly recommend is you
could just take sea salt and put a
little bit in your mouth if you crave
salt. Don't consume it with a chip
because we don't need the carbohydrates.
But a lot of people will sleep better if
they have a little more salt. The best
thing to do is at your dinner time
earlier is to add a little more salt so
you don't crave any salt at night. But
when you're low in sodium, that alone
can actually raise cortisol, believe it
or not. And so also put the liver in
overdrive. So if the liver is working
hard to deal with that, it can't
actually help you detoxify the rest of
the body. Just notice the next time you
have seed oils in the evening, just
notice when you wake up in the morning
how you feel. You probably are going to
feel a lot more stiff and achy or
inflamed because that's exactly what
these seed oils do. They create
inflammation. They're highly
inflammatory. Number five, taking
sedating antihistamines or sleeping
pills before bed. Now, my disclaimer is
I'm not telling you not to take it. I'm
just going to give you my two cents on
it. Rarely are you going to feel rested
when you wake up in the morning. So,
you're getting kind of a fake sleep
which is not a real rejuvenating
wonderful refreshment sleep that you
should get if you use more natural
things because you're artificially using
a drug to put you into a sedated state
and so you just kind of wake up feeling
pretty uh groggy and very tired. There's
been data and research to show that the
side effects are less focus,
concentration, and memory the next day.
And also the other thing is that it
takes more and more of that drug to
create the same effect. So you start off
taking one pill, then you need two, and
then three, and then you might get some
side effects after that. So I remember
one time I was really desperate to go to
sleep. So I took some over-the-counter
sleep medication. Not only did I not
sleep, but I felt just kind of like dull
and tired. I will never do that again.
Next one is sleeping. next to your cell
phone. Some people sleep with their cell
phone underneath their pillow or very
close to their head. You have to realize
that the charging cable and the phone
both give off electromagnetic fields.
This bad energy can affect your brain
and also your ability to go through
these sleep cycles. They also have a
huge effect on blunting melatonin, again
inhibiting your ability to get tired and
also sleep deeply and getting
restorative sleep. There's been a lot of
research in this area with phones too
close to your ear when you're talking or
in your pockets, but having them next to
your head when you're sleeping is not a
good idea. I would highly recommend
putting your cell phone on airplane mode
or keeping it away from your body when
you're sleeping and especially if you're
recharging it. And the last one, just
sleep deprivation itself. Not getting
enough sleep. I'm guilty of that. I
would push myself because I had so much
work to get done. I wanted to be
productive. I thought if I just get more
work done and sleep less, I'll be ahead
of the game. with my physical body
suffering from the years of just not
sleeping and not getting enough sleep.
Trying to get by on five hours or six
hours or even six and a half hours is
just not enough. You need actually more
than seven hours, like 7 and a half to 8
would be ideal. I recommend 10:00,
10:30, maybe 10:45, uh maybe 11 at the
latest. But you have to realize when you
start going to bed closer to 12, you
kind of miss this whole circadian rhythm
where you may start waking up more. Now
you have to wait a period of time before
you're tired again because your whole
body is on this cycle. I mean less than
6 hours of sleep creates a 70% drop in
killer tea cells. This is why a lack of
sleep increases your risk for cancer as
well as viral infections and why
nighttime workers really have a spike in
cancer risk. You also don't get the
toxins to be purified. So now we get a
higher risk of dementia. We really spike
our risk for getting diabetes. I mean,
there's one research study that showed
that 6 days of getting only four to five
hours of sleep will give someone insulin
resistance if they didn't have it
before. And if they already had insulin
resistance, it could actually make you
into a pre-diabetic. Lack of sleep
affects blood sugars that much. Many
men, especially when they get older,
start losing their testosterone. They
develop erectile dysfunction. Sleep
would be the first thing they should go
after to to repair and fix. So
basically, when you're not sleeping,
you're turning off all these survival
genes that your body has. All right, now
that you know seven dangerous habits,
this next video is going to give you all
the information you need to have the
most awesome sleep that you've ever had
so you can wake up and feel refreshed.
And I put this video up right here.
Check it out.
