Why you can't stop addictions. If you
have an addiction, whether it's smoking,
alcohol, porn addiction, sugar, social
media, gambling, whatever, and you try
to fight it or you try to resist it,
that addiction will become 10 times
stronger. And this is what a lot of
people don't realize. An addiction is
not low willpower. It's not a lack of
discipline at all. It's not that the
person's crazy or weak or any of that.
I'm going to show you exactly what an
addiction is in the body. Then I'm going
to show you a technique to weaken this
addiction within a minute and put you
back in the driver's seat. Everything is
based on survival. If you're thirsty,
the body will go after water. When
you're hungry, your body will go after
food. With addictions, it's a little
different. You drink some alcohol, you
feel less stressed, you feel better,
you'll feel happier. What happens next
is this chemical dopamine is going to
tag alcohol as something that increases
survival. Let's say you took a drug and
you felt high and you felt less stressed
or you felt more energetic.
This chemical is going to tag that as
something to help you survive. And if we
take gambling, you're increasing your
odds to get more resources with less
effort, right? People are scrolling all
these potential mates to pick from in a
very short period of time and it's an
abundance because pornography mimics
reproduction which is a internal
survival drive. Let's take ultrarocessed
foods, right? You eat a doughnut, you
get pleasure immediately from that. This
chemical will tag it as survival. So as
you repeat it, it becomes stronger and
stronger and stronger in two different
chemicals. This chemical right here,
it's the gas pedal that gets you
activated. And then dopamine is kind of
like the finetuner. It tunes into
specifically what is considered
important, whether it's alcohol, drug,
water, food, etc. Dopamine does not have
anything to do with giving you pleasure.
It's another chemical called opioids
that gives you the pleasure, at least
initially. But if you keep doing it,
the pleasure goes away. Okay? And all
you get now is relief. But our brains
have not differentiated cocaine from
comfort, alcohol from stress relief. And
then the more you do it, the more these
chemicals go higher and higher and
higher. And then we get massive
glutamate spikes. When this chemical
goes this high, you start having
abnormal body sensations that are no
longer just an urge towards something.
It's basically agitation. You feel
pressure in your body. You go from I
want it to I need it or I have to have
it. Now we have this compulsion or this
obsession with certain things. And of
course if you ignore it, you fight it,
you resist it, guess what happens? Your
body turns up the dial. The flight or
fight system kicks in there. you have
more cortisol, more stress, more body
sensation like your chest gets tight or
you have more anxiety, more pressure to
get you to give in. And so eventually
addictions have nothing to do with
pleasure. It's all to do with relieving
the withdrawals. So now let's show you
what you can do about this. How can we
quickly reduce the body urge or
sensation that is driving you towards
this thing? So let's just say for
example you are addicted to alcohol
right and you start getting these body
urges or compulsions to go after that
thing. What can you do to reduce that
urge? First thing you have to realize is
that urge is coming from either too much
glutamate or dopamine. It's coming up
but it will come down. The question is
how do we bring it down? The first thing
you're going to do, number one, is
you're going to rate on a scale from 0
to 10 the intensity of this compulsion
or impulse. Number two, you're going to
locate it or point to where it is in
your body. Is it coming from your chest
or your head or another part of your
body? You're locating where this
sensation is because it is a body
sensation. Okay?
Number three, you're going to describe
it to yourself. Is it pressure? Is it a
pulling feeling? Is it a tight chest? Is
it like anxiety or a restlessness in
your muscles? Whatever it is, just
describe it. And then number four,
you're going to go back to number one.
Rate
that sensation. Okay? from 0 to 10,
you're going to notice the intensity is
going to be significantly lower. And
then you're going to go to number two,
locate it and point to it. Where is it
now? Did it shift? Did it move? Is it in
the same location? And then number
three, describe it. Did it change in
character? And then number four, go back
to number one, rerate it. What you're
actually doing is you're taking
something that's very vague and kind of
all over your body and you're making it
very specific. You're differentiating
you from it. You're putting it over
here, okay? Away from you so you can
kind of see it and you can identify it
and you can also realize it's not you,
it's this other thing. And what's really
magical about this is the more you
define it and you look at it and you put
it over there, the less it's going to
affect you, the less intense it's going
to be. And a lot of times these
sensations can go away in under a
minute. Just follow step 1 2 3 4 and
repeat until that sensation is gone.
Remember, it's on a wave and you're just
speeding the thing up to bring it down
to zero intensity. go ahead and do this
and then comment down below and then
read all of the success stories. This
really works. It's an amazing technique.
Is it going to cure you? No. This is
only temporary. It's a quick technique
just to allow you to cope with it. Next
thing, NAC. It stands for NetAL cyine.
This is a natural remedy that they use
for a lot of things. Tylenol poisoning
to break up thick mucus, but it also
greatly helps reduce these glutamate
spikes that I talked about. Glutamate is
an exytotoxin for the brain. NAC helps
you regulate the spikes, so it has more
of a normal amount. Some people take 600
milligrams. If they have maybe a minor
problem, 1,200 milligrams. But if they
really have this major addiction, they
might take 2400
milligrams per day. Because high
glutamate is causing things to be
urgent, having compulsions, and more
pressure. In the brain, you have the gas
pedal, which is glutamate, and then you
have the brakes. What are the brakes?
GABA. What's a good way to increase
GABA? Glycine, which I like to combine
it with magnesium as magnesium glycinate
because you get the glycinate which
actually increases the GABA that breaks
plus you have magnesium that actually
can help reduce cortisol and the fight
orflight mechanism because in addictions
when you resist the body starts
massively increasing stress hormones to
force you to do certain things.
Magnesium glycinate is another antidote
for this impulse. As a side note, if
you're a smoker, okay, and you're
addicted to nicotine, it's a little
different. Nicotine is one of those
really strong addictive things in your
body. And then if you smoke a pack a
day, you're talking hundreds of
trainings, okay, for that dopamine. So,
if you're a smoker and you're trying to
get rid of that, you're going to have to
add a couple additional things to help
you. More vitamin B1 and also potassium.
Both of these can greatly help in the
biochemical pathways for smokers. And
then the other thing about a smoker is
that the withdrawals can last one to two
weeks hardcore. So, as long as you can
go into this and hang in there for 2
weeks, it's going to get a lot easier.
And you have to retrain your body. And
that brings up another very, very
important thing, and this is your
environment. Changing the people that
you hang out with, if they're part of
the trigger. Let's just take
ultrarocessed foods and even sugar and
you go home and you have these little
bowls of candy all around you or you
have junk food in your refrigerator,
your pantry, you have to change your
environment so it's not in your face.
For bad habits, you have to add barriers
to get them. Now, obviously, if you're a
smoker, you would absolutely positively
not have any cigarettes around the
house. Maybe you'd want to have
substitute things like toothpicks in
your mouth. And with pornography, you'd
obviously want to put filters on your
cell phone, and you'd want to not bring
your cell phone in your bedroom. If you
have a very strong addiction to alcohol
or drugs, one of the best rehab programs
out there is called Narinon. And if
you've never heard about it, you should
check it out. I put a link down below.
Narinon is not about giving you a drug
to get off a drug. It's about putting
you in a different environment, a safe
environment, so these things don't
trigger you anymore. And also, they
emphasize nutrition to plug the holes in
some of these deficiencies. A lot of
addictions start when there's already
deficiencies of exercise,
sleep, blood sugar issues. It makes the
person more vulnerable to developing an
addiction. If your body is agitated, if
your body has an impulse towards
something and you start exercising, you
are going to naturally add movement to
reduce that body sensation because you
actually get the relief from exercise.
So, this is a really good substitute for
addictions. Having enough sleep is
probably one of the best ways to restore
those two brain chemicals, glutamate and
dopamine, because they're dysfunctional.
And then especially to get your blood
sugars balanced out by not eating
carbohydrates and by not snacking, going
on a low carb healthy diet with high
quality animal protein. Super important
because if your blood sugar is off,
you're going to have more problems with
dopamine. It's almost impossible to fix
it on top of a blood sugar issue. One
last thing, oxytocin. Oxytocin
is a bonding hormone. It's a social
hormone. When someone has an addiction,
if they don't get whatever their body
urge is telling them to get, that puts
your body in danger. Well, oxytocin is
the safety hormone that you can actually
activate to help substitute these
messages. Okay? There's several ways to
get oxytocin.
Hugs, hugging people, pets, bonding with
other people, friendships, and things
like that, spending more time with your
family. El rutery. Okay, I did a whole
video on this. This is a microbe that
you can actually turn into a yogurt that
has super high amounts. When I started
taking this within probably a few days,
my wife said, "What has gotten into
you?" I said, "What do you mean? You
want to like hug me several times a day?
You never want to hug me." I said, "It
must be the yogurt." She goes, "Keep
eating the yogurt." And also, just
having a purpose can actually increase
oxytocin.
But my viewpoint, I think everyone has
the same purpose and that is to help
someone or something. That's at the
foundation of most people's purposes.
And it just so happens that when you
help, you can also increase oxytocin.
Now, since this is the last thing I'm
talking about, if you have not seen this
video I did on alerty, it's fascinating.
You'll love it and I put it up right
here. Check it out.
