bizarre, mind-blowing health tricks that
are backed by science. The first one is
dark chocolate. When you start eating
dark chocolate at 80% cacao, there's
going to be a lot less sweeteners. It
borders on kind of bitter chocolate.
This is from a study 2017. A meta
analysis showed that it can
significantly decrease the systolic
blood pressure and diastolic blood
pressure comparable to certain
medications. Dark chocolate decreases
cortisol by 14%. That's the stress
hormone. It's the flavonoids in the
chocolate. It actually increases nitric
oxide. So, that's going to lower blood
pressure. Just realize that you don't
want to take this too late in the day
because it has something similar to
caffeine which can keep you up at night.
So, I wouldn't have any past lunchtime.
The next one is from the American
Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care
Medicine. This trick significantly
improves your sinuses. Increasing nitric
oxide by 15 times. Nitric oxide gives
you more oxygen. This activates the
parasympathetic nervous system which
will help relax you, lower your blood
pressure, and it's basically the action
of humming while you're exhaling. So,
you sit or lie down somewhere, maybe on
your bed. You inhale through your nose
very, very gradually, and then you
exhale while you are humming.
So, you can feel the vibration in your
face and your chest. And you want to do
this for several minutes a few times a
day. I mean, this is pretty wild.
humming could actually help your sinuses
by basically restricting the air flow in
your sinuses, which increases nitric
oxide. The third one is pretty wild
because it just involves standing on one
leg for 30 seconds and then you're going
to stand on the other leg for 30
seconds. You're you're practicing your
balance. And this is from a 2014 study
in the journal Stroke. And maybe you
want to do this while you're brushing
your teeth or shaving or something like
that. But what they found is it actually
increases your gray matter volume which
includes hippocampus which is all about
memory increasing your cognitive score
by 13%. So I guess the way that it works
is you're basically forcing your body to
balance on one leg which sends
information up to your brain exercising
that part of the brain and improving
that part of the brain. The next one is
also very interesting and this is
sniffing something. In a research paper
in 2013, there was a study that showed
that you can increase your cognitive
function memory by just under 8% by
sniffing rosemary oil. Wow. And
apparently there's something in that oil
that increases acetylcholine, which is a
neurotransmitter in your brain. I also
found three more papers, 2013, 2021, and
2017, showing that sniffing lavender oil
can significantly lower your anxiety and
increase your mood, as well as
increasing your sleep quality,
decreasing daytime sleepiness, and even
reducing postsurgical pain. But when you
sniff peppermint oil, you may find an
increase in sustained attention, better
reaction time, better respiratory
efficiency, and less tension headaches.
And then you have eucalyptus oil. When
you sniff that, apparently you have the
most potent effect on your respiratory
centers, significantly decreasing
coughing, improving COPD, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, as well
as decreasing mucus in the respiratory
uh areas. And then lastly with
frankincense oil, they found that it can
actually decrease neuroinflammation,
inflammation in your brain, which can
directly improve your memory scores as
well as decreasing anxiety. I mean, you
don't need to consume it. You can just
smell it. It probably lasts longer. This
next one is actually interesting. You
might want to try it. This was a study
in 2018 in the Journal of Physiological
Anthropology. By wearing dry, warm socks
to bed, you can actually increase your
sleep 32 minutes longer and improve the
quality of sleep just by dry, warm
socks. And I'm sure that would really
even work better with someone with cold
feet. Then we come into something else
called forest bathing. I did a video on
this a long time ago. So just by being
out in the forest 20 to 30 minutes
smelling the trees, touching the leaves,
listening to the birds, significant
improvement, 26% increase in natural
killer cells in your immune system.
Those are the cells that not only kill
cancer but they kill viruses. Your mood
gets elevated, the blood pressure comes
down significantly, your cortisol can
decrease by 27%. And I think uh the
results are based on certain uh volatile
vapor chemicals that come off of trees
as well as just being in that
environment. You're kind of extracting
all this stress when you put your
attention in this new environment. The
next one is actually singing in the
shower. Now a lot of people sing in the
shower, but they don't realize the
health benefits of singing in the shower
by singing loudly in the shower for 5 to
10 minutes. And this is from a paper in
2018 European Journal of Applied
Physiology. You can actually increase a
certain immune cell by 37%. I'm not
going to get into the technical name of
that immune cell, but I will say it
strengthens your immune system and it's
comparable to taking vitamin C. And at
the same time, it shows that it can
decrease your cortisol by 19%, that's
the stress hormone, and increase your
lung function by 14%. So the next time
you're singing in the shower, realize
you're improving your immune system and
you're reducing your stress. If you
found that interesting, I have more
health hacks in this video right here.
Check them out.
