I'm going to show you the best exercises
to get rid of hip and butt cellulite. If
you carry around most of your weight in
your hips or your thighs and your butt,
and you've tried dieting and squats and
cardio, and nothing is working, this
video is going to help you. But, you do
need to know something.
Female bodies were designed to put fat
more in the bottom section of their body
around their hips and their buttocks and
their thighs. This is a survival
mechanism related to carrying babies. It
actually gives fuel to the baby and
other things as well. Like, there's a
certain omega-3 fatty acid that's super
concentrated in the hip area. So, what's
really going on with the lack of tone or
the cellulite is not necessarily just
fat, okay? It's a combination of fat,
but there's also something called
atrophy, but it's atrophy of a
connective tissue called fascia, which
is like the wetsuit that gives a female
body shape. And this fascia actually has
contractile tissue. It has the ability
to become tighter if you use it. So, in
reality, cellulite is a combination of
atrophy or a loss of protein and the
muscle and deep in the muscle fibers.
And so, the biggest thing you're going
to notice is a lack of strength in your
lower part of your body. So, you just
need to understand it's not just a
matter of losing weight, it's a matter
of strengthening the muscle. And if you
go for weight loss without strengthening
the muscle, it's probably not going to
happen because the muscle is the
metabolic driver of the burning of the
fat. So, one of the strategies is to
build up more muscle strength and
replace that atrophy, which is a loss of
muscle, with stronger muscle. So, now
you have this metabolic machine that can
burn off a lot more fat in the lower
extremities. And I think it'll be
surprising to a lot of women to realize
that this is mostly a lack of muscle and
not as much about fat as they might
think. Now, the glute muscles or the
butt muscle is the biggest muscle in
your entire body. They're the muscle
that is the foundation that literally
holds your entire upper body erect. And
this is why the number one killer for
the glutes, the butt muscle, is sitting
because that inactivates
that glute muscle. But, we're not even
talking about one glute muscle. You
actually have three glute muscles. You
have one that's deeper, you have a big
one, and you have one on the side. And
the exercise I'm going to show you
involves targeting all three of those
glute muscles. The glute muscles are
just one part of an entire chain, okay?
We're going to call it a chain from your
foot to your knee to your hip to your
back, where all of this fascia is
connected. And this is why glute
exercises only target a small percentage
of this problem. So, we're going to
build up these muscles, and what you're
probably going to notice
is initially not much weight loss.
Initially, you should be focusing on
your strength cuz that's the first thing
that's going to come back. Because think
about what atrophy is. You're missing
muscle. Muscle is actually heavier by
volume than fat. So, when you regain
muscle back, are you going to lose more
weight? Not necessarily. Your clothes
might be looser, but the first thing
that you want to focus on is your
strength. That should be your goal
initially, okay? If you're getting
stronger, that means your muscles are
coming back. So, a lot of people ask me,
"What supplements do I recommend?" Now,
of course, I'm not biased of my own
high-quality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg
supplements,
you'll find more information. And of
course, one of the best ways to identify
if you have atrophy is
just when you're sitting in a chair and
you just get off that chair and you
stand up. If you have difficulty with
that, we know that you have atrophy.
But, the amount of sitting people do
over the years not only causes atrophy,
but it really stops the ability to
activate the glutes. So, this is why
doing squats is not enough. And I'm
going to show you the exercises to
activate that muscle and really get it
to change. Arnold Schwarzenegger, when
he would work out, he would also use a
lot of mental focus, deliberate mental
focus on the muscle, visualizing a
muscle improving when he worked out.
Now, at first you might think that's not
going to really do anything. Well, there
happens to be a study that shows that
when you visually have intention and
deliberately do a motion to create an
effect and you focus on that, you will
see significant improvements. So, that's
another thing I want you to do when you
do these exercises. Visually picture in
your mind your hips and your buttocks
getting toned, getting stronger, and
envision the end results of what you
want it to look like. One key thing I
want to mention before we get into the
exercises is this is very, very
important. If you're consuming higher
amounts of carbohydrates, it's going to
be very difficult to see changes.
Because too much insulin from too many
carbohydrates prevents the rebuilding of
muscle, it keeps the inflammation high,
and it keeps the fat marbled through
your midsection. So, you absolutely,
positively need to go on a low-carb diet
and do intermittent fasting. I would
even recommend doing one meal a day and
fasting for 23 hours if you really are
serious about getting to your end result
goal. All right, so now let's dive right
into the exercises and show you how to
do them. Let's start with this first
exercise. This is called the banded
clamshell. You'll take a band that's
just above your knees. This is going to
specifically target the outer part of
your thigh and your hip. If you've never
done this before, it's actually very
difficult, but over a period of time
it'll be easier and easier and easier.
And as you fan your knee outward, just
slowly come down. So, you're going to be
doing one side and then do the other
side. But, I wanted to just give you a
quick overview of how easy this is.
You're just going to be doing four
exercises. This next one is called
banded glute bridge. You're going to
take the same band that you had, put it
just above your knees, you'll be lying
on your back, and now you're going to be
contracting your buttocks. Controlled
movements back and forth. And then at
the end of the movement, contract your
buttocks as hard as you can, and then
relax it, bring it down, and then just
repeat. And the third exercise is called
lateral band walk. You're going to walk
four to five steps to your right side
with slow and controlled motions, and
then four or five steps to the left
side. And you go back and forth and back
and forth. This exercise is really going
to create toning in the outside of your
thighs and the outside of your buttocks.
And this last exercise called deep squat
with side shift, you're simply going to
be squatting with your elbows between
your knees, and then you're going to be
squatting, shifting to the left and to
the right slowly back and forth. Because
you're in a squatting position, you're
activating all sorts of muscles. It's
also good for lower back pain and also
to activate muscles that you probably
haven't worked in a very long time. And
now I want to show you the absolute best
exercises to tone your arms, okay? And
for that information, watch this video
right now, right here. Check it out.
