There is an obvious clue that your
anxiety is not mental. It's not in your
head. There are so many people that have
anxiety without any reason for feeling
that way. Today, we're going to show you
the most overlooked reasons for having
anxiety that has nothing to do with
something going on in your head and it
has everything to do with what's going
on inside your body. But I do want to be
clear, there are certain mental reasons
for having anxiety, but that's not going
to be in this presentation. Anxiety is a
state or a condition of worry. It's
indecision. It's kind of like a
condition of fear, tension. You kind of
have this feeling or concern that
something not good is going to happen.
And it really messes up your ability to
feel comfortable in your own skin.
Especially if you're trying to sleep,
right, with the heart rate pounding and
even your mind just racing. It can
really affect your state of well-being.
The interesting thing about anxiety is
that your body can put you into that
state and that state of anxiety can
directly affect the body as well. When
you have anxiety deep inside your body,
your chemistry is altered. You have all
sorts of physiological things that are
happening that keep your body in a state
of fight or flight. That would be
different than the system rest and
digest which allows you to feel calm and
sleep through the night and not have so
many worries. There actually is a test
to measure how much of this sympathetic
nervous system that you're in at any
given time. It's called heart rate
variability and you can get certain
watches and devices to pick up that
information. I used to use this
technology in my practice all the time
and it's amazing. Some people would come
in and they're literally sitting there
calm, but the inside of their body is
like someone has the foot on the gas
pedal. They're just in total stress
mode. It's because the nervous system is
so far out of whack. So, there are
physical reasons why your body has a
certain emotion. I mean, just take a
child for example. If your child's blood
sugar is off, they are not going to be
calm, okay? They're going to be bouncing
off the wall. They're going to be
slightly irritable. They're going to be
anxious. has nothing to do with some
mental problem. It has everything to do
with a physical problem. Blood sugar.
That's number one right here. If
someone's blood sugar is too low,
they're going to have anxiety. They're
going to be irritable. They're going to
be on edge. Just think about how many
couples get in a fight just purely
because of blood sugar. It's just a very
common problem that a lot of people
don't connect the dots with. Because
when your blood sugar goes down, your
brain is not getting fuel. And that puts
your body in panic mode, not just with
the hormone called cortisol, but with
adrenaline. And then it tells the liver
to release sugar, to bring it back up.
So a really important purpose of these
hormones like cortisol and adrenaline is
to raise the sugar back up so the brain
can get fuel. Your brain does not have
any way of storing fuel, okay? It
doesn't have fat that it can tap into
directly. It has to get its fuel from
the blood. And so this is why it's so
important to have really healthy blood
sugar. Typically, when people think
about low blood sugar, especially
medically, they'll say, "Well, that's
why you need to carry candy in your
pocket to raise your blood sugar." Huge
mistake. Huge mistake. Because the blood
sugar will go back up. But the question
is what's going to happen next? It's
going to go back down because the very
reason why it went down in the first
place is it's being pushed down by a
hormone called insulin. Insulin is the
hormone that keeps a person in a mode
where they have low blood sugar. And so
taking candy to solve low blood sugar is
like pouring gasoline on a fire. It's
just going to keep happening over and
over and over. The way you fix this very
easily is you cut out the sugar. That
way we cut out the need for creating so
much insulin that drops the blood sugar
and then we replace those carbohydrates
or the sugars with high quality protein.
Protein and other foods that don't raise
insulin a lot like certain healthy fats.
You can do vegetables. But to fix low
blood glucose, you need to go low carb
and you also need to not eat so
frequently and not snack. Your mental
state will be so much better. You're not
going to be as hungry anymore. You'll
probably lose weight. Your skin will do
much better. Very important. And one
really simple clue to know that your
anxiety is coming from low blood sugar
is this. Does it go away when you eat
something? Okay, at least temporarily.
If it does, then we know the anxiety is
coming from your blood sugar. Okay,
that's the clue. Number two, lack of
sleep. How many people have anxiety just
because they're not sleeping that great?
When a person does not sleep adequately,
their cortisol is going to be high and
they're going to be grouchy as well and
especially have worry and anxiety
unnecessarily.
It's just amazing when people get a
really good sleep how good they feel
mentally and emotionally. They just
don't have anxiety. One reason why
people can't sleep is a blood sugar
problem. You go to bed, you have to not
eat for a period of let's say seven or
eight hours, right? What happens in that
seven eight hours is your liver has to
stabilize your blood sugar. And many
people have problems with the liver if
they have blood sugar issues and then
they start getting this high and low
blood sugar situation kick in
adrenaline. Okay, between one and three
or four o'lock, okay? And then now
they're up. A lot of times a lack of
sleep is connected to this right here.
So a lack of sleep is not a mental
problem, okay? It's a physical problem
that's causing a mental effect. Okay,
anxiety. Next one is low vitamin B1.
This is called thamine. Thamine is one
of the most important vitamins involved
with your nervous system in your brain.
And when you're deficient, you will have
this anxiety and nervous tension in your
body. I've seen it in practice. I would
give people that had that symptom some
B1 and within
minutes, probably three or four minutes,
it disappears. So, one big clue that
your anxiety is coming from a B1
deficiency is does it go away when you
take B1? Number four is stimulants,
primarily caffeine. I'm guilty of
consuming a lot of caffeine during
college. I would drink pots of coffee
and at first I could get away with it
until I got an ulcer. And the reason I
was so tired all the time is I was
eating all these carbs. So it was a
never-ending blood sugar issue, sleep
problem, fatigue, but I coped with it
with caffeine. Too much caffeine affects
the nervous system. Not to mention
caffeine depletes B1 as well. Too much
chocolate can have stimulants in it as
well. And also there's a lot of
medications that are stimulants, weight
loss pills, and those can really create
anxiety. In fact, there are quite a few
medications that have a side effect of
anxiety. And I didn't even put that on
the list, but medications can cause
anxiety. Again, it's not a mental
problem. It's something you're doing to
create this effect. And then also low
protein. And that is one of the
solutions to low blood sugar, to consume
more protein. But you have to realize
the reason why we need so much protein
is not for fuel but to replace all of
our biochemistry, the neurotransmitters,
certain hormones. All of our
biochemistry is built with the
foundation of protein. When you do not
consume enough quality protein,
so many things suffer and it's really
difficult to get sufficient protein
through plants. And this is why many
people who do more of a vegetarian or
vegan diet suffer from a high quality
amino acid deficiency. But the great
majority after a period of time need
more highquality amino acids. I'm
talking about animal protein. And then
when they do that, they're amazed how
their mood gets elevated. It pulls them
right out of this anxious state. So
again, a physical reason for a mental
anxiety symptom. And the big clue is,
does your anxiety go away when you
consume more protein? And if it does,
then that's the cause. Before you leave,
I want to give you something. It's a
free one-page download of my daily
routine. It's taken quite a few years to
distill down all the successful actions
that I will do in a day that help me to
feel like I'm 18 years old despite being
60 years old. And I want to give it to
you in a onepage download. So, all you
have to do is click the link down below
in the description, print it out, and
put it on your refrigerator and follow
it. And once you do that, I have another
video on a completely different angle to
address not just anxiety, but the core
of your stress. And for that
information, you want to watch this
video right here. Check it out.
