The number one best food for aging skin,
guess what? It's not collagen.
Typically, what people do for their skin
is they use facial creams or
moisturizers. They pulled up the top
selling facial creams for wrinkles and
aging skin. I actually read the
ingredients. It was shocking to me.
They're putting plastics, chemicals,
things that cause cancer. Some of them
actually have collagen in these lotions.
You can't put collagen topically and
think it's going to be absorbed. It's
not. But all these other chemicals in
the cream will. It goes right into the
skin. It goes into the bloodstream and
then it starts to build up in your liver
and now the liver has to deal with it.
It has to get rid of the toxicity and
then the skin starts looking older.
Another mistake is to overcleanse the
skin and really scrub it too much.
There's a layer of microbiome that is
there to protect you. So, you have to be
very gentle about when you exfoliate the
skin. I just recommend that you go
really light on the skin because there's
all these microbes on your skin that are
beneficial. When you pull those off, now
we don't have the protection. Of course,
the water you put on your skin from the
shower. Fluoride and chlorine, very,
very toxic, very, very harsh. So, get a
filter for your shower. And the last
mistake, when you're on a statin, I'm
not telling you not to take a statin,
but that blocks cholesterol. Cholesterol
and fat are necessary to build the skin.
I just want to mention one last thing
about uh the chemicals in these lotions.
You would think that the FDA does
third-party testing. Absolutely not.
It's an honor system, so industry has to
do their own testing. But with
cosmetics, there's no testing. They can
pretty much put a lot of things in
there. In fact, in the EU, they actually
banned
1,600 chemicals in cosmetics, but in the
US, they only ban 30. All right. Now,
let's get into this food. I want to see
if you can guess what it is. The first
thing that this food has a lot of is
vitamin A, retinol. It's an essential
element to building connective tissue.
Also, vitamin A is essential for your
immune system on the skin to protect the
skin cells from getting old. Let's move
on to the next co-actor, copper. Copper
provides the elasticity to the skin. You
also need zinc for many reasons. One
being it's a great healer of the skin.
This food is also loaded with iron to
strengthen the red blood cells to give
you oxygen and to help your circulation.
One serving size of this food has more
anti-aging, anti-rinkle nutrients than
most
$80 skin products. And this food
is liver. That's right, grass-fed liver.
Grass-fed liver contains literally every
co-actor and raw material that you need
to keep your skin super vibrant. Now,
here's the problem. Some people don't
like to eat liver, including myself. For
some reason, when I eat it, it makes me
tired. And I think because of my
history, I've damaged my liver. I've
eaten a lot of bad foods for many years.
What happens when you do that? whether
you damage your liver from bad foods,
alcohol, a virus, chemicals, the liver
has these cells called resident memory
tea cells and they can actually react to
dietary liver when you eat it. And so
when you eat liver, sometimes you might
get tired and you're thinking, do I have
an allergy to liver or do I have some
problem with liver? Why is it making me
tired? Well, it has to do with uh some
pre-existing damage that can then create
a little bit of immune reaction that can
actually increase your histamines and
make you tired. So, what I found is if I
take just a small amount, like one
capsule of grass-fed liver in a
supplement before bed, it helps me sleep
better. It doesn't bother me through the
day, and I actually can get the benefit
of that liver uh without consuming the
liver because I don't like it. Now, if
you don't like liver, you can also soak
it in lemon juice. That actually helps
the taste. You can find a good recipe
for it. So, you're putting various
spices and onions and cook it with that.
Or you can blend the liver into other
meat. I've done that where I don't even
taste it. Just put a little bit. That
seems to work. Like, I put it in
hamburger. Or have liver pate, which is
pretty delicious. Or grass-fed liver
pills. But I'm telling you, if you want
to have nice skin, you should just start
consuming liver and see what happens
because liver is literally one of the
best multivitamin mineral co-actors. It
provides so many good things for your
skin and the rest of your body as well.
When you eat collagen or take collagen
to get that to turn into your skin,
again, you need a lot of co-actors. To
get those cells in your skin to make
collagen, they also need to be fed these
co-actors. There's a lot of things you
can do to destroy the skin topically,
but also internally as well by eating,
of course, junk food, consuming a lot of
sugar and seed oils. It's really hard on
the body and it'll make you look older.
And one last thing that I found out when
I was in practice observing people that
would do certain diets, even ketogenic
diets, but do it in a way that is super
low fat. Okay, they're going low carb,
but they're also going low fat, almost
like no fat. And it's like protein, very
lean protein. And they're not even using
quality ingredients. They're using
prepackaged
uh highly refined protein as soy protein
isolates. Uh and I'm talking about ideal
protein. I would notice people that
would consume that. It's just like a
bunch of synthetic vitamins with really
low quality uh raw material. and they
would lose weight, but they would look
old. Their skin would look dried out.
Their hair would look dried out. Yes,
it'll help you lose weight, but it is it
really the healthy way to do it. Anyway,
start eating some liver and see how your
skin does. And thank you so much for
watching this. I will see you in the
next
