The number one best potassium richch
food on planet Earth is something I'm
going to tell you in just a minute. But
I first wanted to cover what not to
consume as far as foods which are
considered high potassium foods. We have
bananas, potatoes, plantains, which by
the way have more potassium than
bananas, beans, and sweet potatoes.
Every one of these standard recommended
foods for increasing your potassium is a
starch, which means they have a lot of
sugar. I mean, bananas have like 27
grams of sugar. So, starch is a hidden
sugar. No one's going to eat a raw
potato, so they're going to cook it. So,
you're basically eating something that's
going to turn into sugar very quickly.
So, yes, they all are loaded with
potassium, but they're also loaded with
a lot of sugar. Now, beans are loaded
with fiber, but they also contain
starch, and they do create bloating for
a lot of people. Some people can consume
them, but some people can't. I can't eat
beans without getting severe bloating.
But there's certain beans that are
better than others. But typically, beans
do raise the insulin level, and that's
why I put it on the no list. But the
number one food for potassium is this
right here,
avocado. One avocado has about 700
milligrams of potassium. Zero starch.
That means zero blood sugar spike, zero
net carbs, super healthy fats which slow
the digestion allowing you to absorb
more potassium. And avocados also are
loaded with magnesium that works with
potassium and allows potassium to work
in your body. As compared to eating
banana, the digestion is very, very
quick. So, you're going to get this
massive blood sugar spike and then
you're going to be hungry for another
banana in about 20 minutes. But not with
avocados. Avocados are super satisfying.
They also have a lot of other nutrition,
including B vitamins and certain
minerals. And I eat a lot of avocados
with my eggs, with meat. I put it on my
salad. So, a lot of people ask me, "What
supplements do I recommend?" Now, of
course, I'm not biased of my own
high-quality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg
supplements, you'll find more
information. Now, this next one is very
surprising. Wild salmon has 970 mg of
potassium. And I'm talking about like a
half a fillet. And make sure it's wild
caught, not farm-raised. Salmon has zero
carbohydrates. It has a good amount of
magnesium and it's loaded with omega-3
fatty acids. And what you're going to
find on this list right here is a common
theme is that the foods that are loaded
with potassium are also loaded with
magnesium. So you can kill two birds
with one stone, especially since you
need magnesium for potassium to work in
the body. Now, let's talk about leafy
greens. These three leafy greens have
the most potassium. Swiss chard has
8,000 mg of potassium per cup. Be tops
have 1,300 mg of potassium. Spinach has
840 millig of potassium. Now, the way
that I recommend cooking this is not to
boil them because potassium is water
soluble and it's going to actually leech
out, go into the water and deplete your
food of potassium. So, I would recommend
sautéing them or steaming them. Or if
you're going to boil them, just slightly
boil them. Not too much. The
carbohydrates are super low because
they're very high in fiber, but they
have good nutrients in them, especially
potassium and magnesium and also vitamin
K1. One little point about spinach is if
you cook spinach, you get 840 milligs of
potassium versus raw spinach, it
actually is lower. So, you do want to
sauté spinach as well as these other
vegetables. Now, I know some of you are
sitting there going, "Wait a second.
You're just telling me to eat three
vegetables that are very high in
oxalates."
And for some reason, people just don't
want to get kidney stones. An oxalate is
something that combines with calcium and
that can form stones. It can irritate
the body. Well, there's some additional
data I want to share with you. Number
one, if you consume calcium while you're
eating this, aka cheese, you will
dramatically reduce the amount of
oxalates that are going to irritate
things because they'll bind in your
intestine with the calcium and then go
through the intestine and not be
reabsorbed and end up in your kidney.
But the other big thing is that all of
these right here are loaded with
magnesium. Magnesium greatly helps
reduce the formation of kidney stones.
In fact, in a lot of research I've done,
and I've done videos on this, magnesium
is the antidote to preventing kidney
stones. I recommend adding magnesium to
the diet on a regular basis, especially
if you consume these. And that way, you
can prevent the formation of kidney
stones. And also, if you consume 2.5
liters of fluid every single day, the
odds of you getting kidney stones are
much less than winning the lottery
because a kidney stone is a super
concentrated oxalate calcium stone. And
if you're drinking enough fluid, it'll
never form. And of course, I'm not
telling you to consume massive amounts
of this, but these are good sources of
potassium and magnesium. Now, there's
some other foods that actually are
really surprising. Porttoello mushrooms
have 530
mg of potassium and I'm talking about
just one cup. So you can sauté them with
some butter and some sea salt. Quite
delicious. Another very surprising
source of potassium is tomato paste. So
in certain dishes that you use, two
tablespoons tomato paste gives you 400
milligrams of potassium. And then of
course cream of tartar, which is
actually a form of potassium. It's
potassium by tartrate. You probably have
it in your cupboard right now, but cream
of tartar is potassium. And you can use
that in various recipes as well. And
just like a half a teaspoon is 250
milligrams. I mean, some people even
dissolve a little bit in some water and
drink it as a potassium supplement,
especially if they're on a ketogenic
diet. So, now that you know what you
should be eating to increase potassium,
the next vital thing you need to know is
how to get more magnesium because
potassium cannot work in the body
without magnesium. And for that
information, you need to watch this
video right here. Check it out.
