Today we're going to talk about 27
genius ways to get back to sleep in the
middle of the night. I've had literally
almost every single problem with sleep
over the years. But there's one thing
that you need to know. The harder you
try to go to sleep, the less sleep
you're going to get. Because as soon as
you have to go to sleep and you put so
much pressure on yourself to get to
sleep, you're going to stir up cortisol.
And I think for me that was one big
problem because I was like, "Oh my gosh,
I have to get to sleep." And I would
stress myself out, raise cortisol, and
then I'm like laying there all night.
When you approach sleep, you have to do
so with a very, very light touch like
you're not really trying. So, I'm going
to give you a lot of different
techniques. Starting with number one. If
your feet are cold when you are going to
bed, you are going to interfere with the
thermostat in your hypothalamus.
Normally when you go to sleep the core
temperature in your body which should be
98.6 goes down to 98.5.1
degree lower and that signals a hormone
called melatonin that says okay time to
go to sleep right now. But if your feet
are cold you're going to get mixed
messages and the temperature in the
whole body won't go down and you're
going to have a harder time going to
sleep. So yes, you want to keep the room
cooler. You want to have less blankets
on your whole body, but you want to keep
your feet warm at all times when you go
to sleep, whether it's socks or a
blanket on your feet. I use a blanket,
but I kind of keep a sheet on the rest
of my body. And that's such a simple
tip. Everyone can do it, and it really
will help you go to sleep. Number two,
sea salt before bed. So many people have
this idea that too much salt is bad for
them. And I know doctors have been
telling people that for a long time, but
we need a certain amount of salt. And if
we don't have enough salt, specifically
sodium, what's going to happen is your
adrenaline hormone and cortisol is going
to go up. Why? Because there's another
hormone involved that is like a hidden
reason why a lot of people don't sleep.
And it's a hormone called eldoststerone.
I'm not going to get too much into that.
All you need to know about eldoststerone
is it helps you regulate salt and water
and fluid in your body. A lot of people
going in the sleep if they're low in
sodium will start having an elevated
amount of eldoststerone.
That's going to trigger the fight
orflight mechanism. Sometimes between 2
and 3 in the morning just because you
didn't have enough sea salt. So, I know
a lot of people in the evening, they
snack on chips. They're trying to get
more salt and they do sleep better
because of the salt. What you need is
the salt, but not the carbohydrate
connected to the salt. So, just try it.
Just consume more salt in the evening,
maybe even on your food, and watch how
much better you stay asleep. It's quite
interesting. I'm really excited to
release this new product called Omega-3
cod liver fish oil. Both fish oils and
cod liver oil have the DHA and EPA.
Those are the omega-3 fats. We also have
to be aware of mercury. But the cod
liver oil is different because we're
extracting from the fats from the liver,
but there's no mercury that can attach
to it. So, if you wanted something to
support a healthy heart and a healthy
brain, you might want to try this
omega-3 cod liver fish oil. Number
three, nose breathing. Nose breathing
restricts air into your body. And at
first, you might think, "Oh, wow. I'm
not going to breathe as much. I'm not
going to sleep as much. But if you just
take a look at someone who has anxiety
or panic attacks and they're
hyperventilating, they're
hyperventilating because they have too
much oxygen. It's called the bore
effect. When you increase more CO2, it
allows oxygen to penetrate and be
absorbed into your cells. When you
breathe through your nose, you actually
get the right balance of CO2 with oxygen
to get the maximum oxygen in your cells
versus breathing through your mouth. And
then when I do nose breathing before
bed, I do it consciously and on purpose.
So I'm going to close my mouth, breathe
in about 4 seconds, okay? And then I'm
going to breathe out about five seconds.
And I'm going to keep doing that,
maintaining that pattern. I'll do that
maybe several times and the next thing
you know I'm waking up in the morning.
It works so well because when you
consciously breathe in a certain way,
you're putting control also over your
autonomic nervous system, but you're
also allowing the oxygen to be maximized
deep inside your tissues. And it's also
a great way to get your mind off
thinking and, you know, thinking about
problems, which you don't want to do
before you go to bed. All right, number
four, adrenaline and carbohydrates.
When you are on a high carbohydrate
diet, what happens is you raise your
blood sugars and then insulin comes
around and lowers your blood sugars
and then it comes up and it comes down.
over a period of time,
you are going to have low blood sugar.
And that's just simply because of how
the hormones are going to then become
more resistant, like insulin, and then
you're going to end up with lower blood
sugar right around 2:00 in the middle of
the night. Now, your body can't have
that, okay? It doesn't like high blood
sugar. It doesn't like low blood sugar.
So, it's going to release a hormone to
mobilize more glucose and sugar. What
hormone is that? Adrenaline actually and
cortisol. Both of them. These are stress
hormones that are counterregulatory
hormones that are there to help
stabilize the blood sugar and bring it
up. So, at the top end, pushing it down
is insulin, but the bottom end we got
adrenaline and cortisol. So, a lot of
people who have not adapted to ketones
because they're eating too many carbs
have this problem sleeping at night
because the blood sugar is so low. You
have these other hormones kicking in
there and then stabilizing the blood
sugar and raising the blood sugar and
releasing sugar from your liver, but
it's going to wake you up. So, in other
words, you want to go low carb and get
adapted to low carb to be able to have
the stability through the whole night
sleeping and keep the adrenaline low. I
had this problem for many years. I had
no idea uh what was causing it. Number
five, body scan. This is another thing
that is super easy, super powerful. So,
you're laying in bed and you start off
with your head and you just start
scanning your body.
all the way down. Relaxing it. Relaxing
it. Right. I kind of scan for tension.
Uh sometimes I'll find tension in my
upper back, sometime in my chest,
sometime in my abdomen. I just
consciously let go of those muscles as I
start from the top, working my way down
through my arms, through my chest,
through my midsection, through my
pelvis, through my lower back, through
my thighs, my knees, my ankles, and my
toes. and I'm just consciously letting
go of the tension.
Super effective and you should try it.
It's quite interesting. That's a simple
thing that everyone can do. And what
you're going to realize is that there's
a couple areas of your body that you
hold tension. Sometimes it's in the
lower back for me or my upper back, but
I'm constantly holding tension there
without even being aware of it until I
I'm conscious of it because I kind of
scan through my body and then I just let
it go and then I actually can sleep a
lot better.
Number six is eating earlier in the day.
If you eat late at night, especially
protein, boy, that's going to keep you
up, especially if you're stuffed. So,
ideally, if you're struggling with your
sleep, it would be really wise to eat
early dinner, like maybe 3 or 4, 4:30,
maybe even 5:00, and then don't eat
anything after that. Okay? You will find
that you will sleep better just from
that minor change of eating earlier.
Number seven,
snacking, especially at night, is going
to lead to insulin resistance, which is
then going to lead to a problem with
urinating through the night, where so
many people have this problem, and it's
such an easy thing to fix.
Automatically, men will think that it's
their prostate, but in reality, if they
just stop snacking, especially at night,
what would happen? They would find that
they would urinate less through the
night. And there's other things that
contribute to that, especially with the
eldoststerone salt thing right there.
And you would think if I had more salt,
I'm going to have more water. I'm going
to pee all night long. Actually, you're
going to retain fluid all night long. If
you took potassium, for example, before
bed, that would not be good because
that's going to make you get up and
urinate. But more sodium will help you
retain the fluid. But the snacking is
deadly. that will keep you up at night
urinating through the night which is
going to interfere with your ability to
sleep and on top of that it increases
that insulin problem. Uh so it worsens
the adrenaline. So when I talk about
going on a low carb diet I'm also
talking about giving up the snacks and
doing intermittent fasting. Both of
those combined are the two most powerful
things that you can do to create health.
Number eight is something you probably
already know about. You know, too much
stimulants like with coffee, with
caffeine or tea or chocolate can keep
you awake at night because the liver is
supposed to break down this caffeine and
these stimulants. But what happens if
you're doing caffeine
at lunch and after lunch and your liver
might not have broken down all that
caffeine and then at night you're not
tired. Okay. I consume a very small cup
of coffee early in the morning and then
that's it. Okay? So, I don't have any
more coffee and I keep it small because
I used to consume pots of coffee all day
long until late at night when I used to
study in college, you know, at 12:00
midnight and I was just filled with too
much caffeine. So, you just want to cut
out those stimulants. All right. Number
nine, when you watch TV in the evening,
if you do, really be selective of what
movies you watch because if the movie is
too interesting or involves um action or
fear
or adventure, that's not good before
bed. So, do what I do. I I'll watch like
a Hallmark movie which is completely the
same
boring
uh theme over and over again. And the
reason I do that is because I can go to
sleep so fast like throughout that that
show. It just kind of helps wind me
down. Parallel with that um about 2
hours before bed I have these blue
blockers that also filter out green
waves as well. So, they're blue and
green blockers. Both of these
wavelengths can lower and suppress
melatonin. And I've tried this back and
forth. I'll wear those glasses for a
period of time and then I won't wear
them. Boy, they really work. Uh, you
should try it. They block certain light
that interfere with melatonin. So, that
way when I go to bed, I have the highest
amount of melatonin possible. So then
that's a kind of a a sleep pressure
hormone that pushes you into a nice
wonderful sleep. And so I wear those
glasses. Uh despite how weird they look
on me, I will wear them. Okay. Number
11, EMF. What is EMF? Electromagnetic
fields.
And so this basically comes from cell
phones, your Wi-Fi, your router in your
house, computers, electrical cords,
anything involving electricity is going
to put off uh this electromagnetic
field. It's kind of invisible. You can
get a little device to measure it. But I
actually have a device. I went in my
room and I started to identify uh EMF
waves. And I found the back wall just
gave off this EMF 8t from the wall. And
I was found there was some wires that
were crossing creating a magnetic field
that I was being bathed in every night.
And I didn't know that. And so what I
would recommend that you do is you don't
necessarily have to buy one of those
devices, but just keep your cell phone
electrical devices as far away from you
as possible. And also, if you have a
problem going to sleep, and this might
be a complication for other people in
the house, but if you could shut off the
circuit breaker of electricity in your
room, you are going to find that you're
going to sleep so good. And I know it's
kind of a pain in the butt to do that.
Uh, but it really makes a huge
difference. Okay, number 12. Don't be
watching the clock through the night. If
you woke up, don't look over at the
clock because then you're gonna start
thinking, okay? We want to not think
when you're sleeping. And also, turn all
your notifications on your cell phone
off. Put it on airplane mode so you
don't get anything coming through your
cell phone. Very important because
what's going to happen, you're going to
look at that time and now you're going
to be thinking about and you're going to
be analyzing it. And that's going to
stimulate cortisol. Because if you think
about the purpose of the mind, the
purpose of the mind is to solve problems
because that is not going to help you
rest. We want to rejuvenate. And there's
a time and place for solving problems,
but not in the middle of the night. So,
we don't want to give your mind any
problems to solve. Like, oh, it's 2:00
again and I'm still not sleeping. Oh my
gosh, what am I going to do? Etc. 13. I
already mentioned this. The harder you
try to go to sleep, the less you're
going to go to sleep. So, there's been
some times in my life where I'm like,
"Okay, I've got to go to sleep. I have
to go to sleep." And then I'm laying
there, I can't sleep because I'm trying
too hard. So, you really have to
approach the sleep with a very carefree
attitude, like, "All right, whatever."
The more serious you are at trying to
sleep, the more difficult it's going to
be. Number 14 is consistency. I would go
to bed at the same time every night. A
good time for people to go to sleep is
between 9:30
and 10:30.
Okay? I go to bed like at 10:30
sharp every single night. And sometimes
I go to bed a little bit earlier, but
that seems to work for me. And we will
talk about a little more about this a
little bit later on, but consistency is
very important. But realize this, if
you're getting up one hour before the
alarm clock and you're laying there, but
you're not fully getting into asleep,
but you're resting,
that is still valuable. That still
counts for a certain amount of rest and
rejuvenation. So even though you didn't
get into sleep, that rest can help you
to a certain degree. So it's not a
complete loss. Number 15, Ashwagandha.
In the circadian wave of cortisol, it
should be in theory at the lowest point
at 2:00 in the morning. So, if it's not,
then we know we have a problem with
cortisol. If you have a problem at 2:00
in the middle of the night and you want
to take a remedy to handle that, you
would take that in the evening before
bed. Number 16 is your pulse rate. If
your pulse rate is too high, uh, that's
going to keep you from going to sleep. I
mean, try to sleep when you just
exercise. It's not going to work. So,
what controls the pulse rate? The
autonomic nervous system. And there's a
couple things that can mess that up. One
is if you're deficient in vitamin B1
because you're eating too many
carbohydrates, especially refined
carbohydrates or sugar. In my case, that
was me because I would always have about
a pint of Ben & Jerry's ice cream before
bed. Uh, and I was just completely
messing up my B1 and my potassium. If
you're low in potassium, your pulse rate
will go up. And just so happens that
when you eat refined sugar and carbs,
you lose potassium and B1. So, taking
the potassium during the day and B1 can
actually help regulate your pulse rate.
As an immediate thing, controlling your
breathing can also bring down the pulse
rate as well. Just breathing in slow and
breathing out a little bit slower. I
just want to mention pulse rate. There's
one more thing about pulse rate. If you
ever heard about kombucha tea, it's an
acid or apple cider vinegar and you
consume too much of that and you become
too acid, your pulse rate will also go
up from that as well. That's just a side
note. That happened with me as well. 17
is brain chatter. I used to have a lot
of that thinking thinking solving
problems all the time. I can't turn it
off. That is a classic B1 deficiency.
Okay? Usually because you're eating too
much carbohydrate. When you eat a lot of
carbohydrate, you start generating more
lactic acid which then will increase the
pulse rate and your brain is uh too
excitatory. It's just like it's going
too fast. Okay? because you have too
much glutamate. We need to increase the
GABA and by taking B1 before a bed, you
can do that. But just to go through all
the symptoms of a B1 deficiency, nervous
tension, anxiety, trying to get oxygen,
low tolerance for stress, hyper
sensitive to all of these things
neurologically. So B1 is so important in
sleeping and also keeping your brain
quiet. Just as a side note, B1 can't
work without magnesium. So, we want to
add the magnesium in with the B1. And
this is why I added number 20, which I'm
going to get more into that, but
magnesium glycinate hands down is the
best magnesium to take for sleep because
it has not just magnesium, but also
glycinate, which is glycine, which
increases GABA, and also glycine down
here. Two uh grams of glycine will drop
your temperature down to help you
increase melatonin. So this is why
glycine is good for sleep for various
reasons. And you can get the glycine too
from the magnesium glycinate which you
absorb like 80% of it. So I take it as a
powder in the evening. It's just awesome
for sleep. Okay. Acupressure. I have a
series of videos that cover certain
parts of your body that tend to hold
more stress than other parts because
it's so important to know that to be
able to extract stress from your body. I
have a whole technique that works great.
I've done it in practice for many years.
I'll put the link down below of that
video so you can watch it later, but
it's super effective. Number 19 is a
fosial stretch. If you sit behind a desk
all day long or behind a computer like I
spent a lot of time, your posture, your
body is going to go into this certain
tension mode and you're going to try to
go to sleep after all day on a computer.
You need to stretch and stretch the
faucia which is like the all the outer
covering connective tissue in the entire
body. And it's a certain type of stretch
that involves multiple joints at one
time because doing that will really take
the stress out. Okay, I want to come
back to this 20 magnesium cycle. You're
going to have the lowest amount of
magnesium in the early morning, which is
interesting because it correlates to a
lot of problems, health problems that
occur in the early morning. Out of all
the time periods during a 24-hour day,
I'm going to list some conditions that
have the highest incident of happening
at that particular time. heart attack
early morning, stroke, headaches, the
dawn phenomena that incurs in the early
morning which is a high blood glucose
because the liver is making too much
sugar because you're either pre-diabetic
or you have insulin issues. And then
also arthritis involving soft tissue
calcification happens more in the
morning as well. People are just stiffer
in the morning. Every single one of
those conditions is related to low
magnesium. 21 is high intensity interval
training that increases growth hormone.
Growth hormone helps you sleep and then
offset that with long walks and hikes in
nature to reduce cortisol and get lots
of oxygen and also to use up some of the
buildup of energy that has built up in
your body. So if you were an athlete at
one time and then you don't use up that
energy, you may have problems sleeping.
So, this is why regular consistent
exercise is super important. 22. Eye
mask. At night, I wear a these little um
not goggles, but there's a little mask
on my eyes to keep everything dark. And
then I also have earplugs to lessen the
sound. And this brings up another point
with number 24,
sleeping alone. I will say this is very
difficult for a lot of people because
they are in relationships and their dog
sleeps with them and if they have a
couple dogs, oh my gosh, it's like a
party all night long. And I've dealt
with this for many years with people
coming in with insomnia. It's not them,
it's the other people are snoring or
making noise. You just have to make the
decision. Sometimes it's important to
get a good night rest. And uh if you can
avoid all this extra noise and sound, um
it might be worth it. But I will tell
you, when I come to bed at night, uh, my
wife has a dog and the dog sleeps in the
bed. My wife goes to bed before I do.
So, I come back in the room and I'm
going to lie down and the dog is
Charlie's right in my space. And when I
try to move him over, he's growling at
me. So, I have to go through the
growling and I have to kind of gingerly
kind of move him over and then he's kind
of too close to me. So, I found a way to
get Charlie off the bed. And so I'll
take the blanket and I'll just cover him
up
and then um I'll just take the sheet,
put it over me, and within about 10
minutes he gets uncomfortable and gets
off the bed and he sleeps on the ground.
But animals can actually really keep you
up, especially if they snore. Okay, I
want to mention number 25. Elutery is a
type of microbe that you can turn into a
cultured yogurt type substance. And I've
done videos on this and you can make it
and take like two large tablespoons of
this or even like a half a cup a day and
wow will it help you sleep and it lowers
cortisol. So it's one of the best
remedies for your gut that will help
reduce stress. I've already mentioned
the two grams of glycine that can lower
your temperature. Um but let me just
talk about number 27 the last one which
is light in the morning. If you can go
outside when it starts to become
daylight, the sun's rising, and you
allow some of this light, blue light, to
get into your eyes for about 20 minutes,
that's going to greatly help put you on
a circadian wave that will help you
sleep at night and make you awake during
the day. But if you can't do that,
there's certain glasses that you can buy
that have the blue light. There's
certain lights that you can get to give
you that light in the morning for 20
minutes to help you reestablish the
circadian rhythm because it's all
controlled by a light and dark cycle.
Now, I've given you a lot of tips, but
there's one area right here, number 18,
acupressure, that I think everyone needs
to thoroughly learn these pressure
points because I do them every single
night. It's like a lifesaver if you're
stressed and you need to go to sleep
fast. I did in practice for 30 years. I
show you how to apply this and I'm going
to put this video right now right here.
Check it out and uh then apply it and
then write down your success stories on
the bottom of this video in the comment
section. Watch this right now.
