Dr. Berg back again. Today we're going
to talk about why people cannot lose
weight on keto or maybe they initially
lose weight but then it stops working.
We're going to cover all the reasons why
that happens. But what I want to explain
is the whole picture so you can really
dissect it and get the benefits of keto
and what makes keto keto is the lowering
of the carbohydrates. Roughly, it's
below 50 grams of carbohydrates per day,
not per meal. Especially if you're
trying to achieve a goal from keto,
whether it's losing weight, reducing
some type of chronic illness like
diabetes, for example, or just getting
energy, or just doing it to be healthy.
It'll make sense as we go through it.
The first thing I want to talk about is
dirty keto. What is dirty keto? It's
going low carb but not worrying about
the ingredients. Okay? So, if you were
going to go to a fast food restaurant in
McDonald's and order some food and you
can get the burger and then take out the
bun. So, you get a bunch of burger
patties with maybe bacon. Quality is not
that great, but we're omitting the
carbohydrates. Here's some other
products that are dirty keto. The Atkins
products. Oh my gosh, this is like the
worst case scenario. Here we have the
Atkins milk chocolate delight. It has
only 2 g of net carbs. So, if you look
at the total carbohydrates and you minus
the fiber, that gives you what's called
net carbs. And that's pretty much how
people calculate the number of carbs to
keep them below 50. And so, they're
emphasizing also 15 g of protein, right?
And 1 g of sugar and 3 g of fiber. So,
if we look at the ingredients, wow,
there's a huge long list. That's what
you get right here. It's keto, but is it
healthy? I would say no. Then we have
the Quest bar right here. They call it a
protein bar. Birthday cake. Wow, look at
that. Less than one gram of sugar. Okay,
this has protein blend. We have milk
protein isolates, whey protein isolates,
poly dextrose. This is a synthetic
sugar, etc., etc., etc. I'm going to bet
anything if you consume this or this,
you're going to feel bloated. For
example, there's another ketogenic diet
called Ideal Protein. Oh my gosh, this
is not only low carb, but it's low fat
as well and very poor quality protein.
It's like soy protein isolates with
pretty much everything. And I've had
people come in my office that use that
diet for many months and they lose
weight, but oh my gosh, their hair looks
all dried out, their skin looks kind of
old, they don't look vibrant, they don't
look healthy. So, this is one reason why
you might not be successful on your
ketogenic diet. Number two, lack of
sleep. Do you realize that if you get
four days in a row of poor sleep, you're
going to have blood values very similar
to a pre-diabetic? When you don't sleep,
your cortisol level goes super high.
Let's say, for example, you're on the
ketogenic diet, but you're not sleeping
well, and you're wondering, why am I not
losing weight? Because your cortisol is
way too high. Not to mention, you burn
most of the fat when you're sleeping.
you have the most powerful fat burning
hormone called growth hormone and that's
activated mainly when you're sleeping.
So here you are on the ketogenic plan
not sleeping and not seeing results from
the ketogenic plan or the exercise
you're doing. So sleep is a huge piece
of the puzzle. And then let's just go to
number three, stress. Now I've already
talked about cortisol. Cortisol will
block all benefits from the ketogenic
plant. So here you are on a low sugar,
low carb diet, but the sugar is coming
from the liver because the cortisol
hormone and other hormones are literally
causing the liver to make sugar from
protein from fat. This is why even some
people have to for some reason take
predinazone which is a synthetic
cortisol because of the mobilization of
so much sugar. And you'll see too with
people that get a cortisol face,
cortisol causes fat to go on the love
handles, in the belly, on the face, and
also around the organs, okay? As
visceral fat, and also inside the organs
as liver fat. I want to tell you just a
quick story about a patient who came in.
She's trying to lose weight. She's on
the ketogenic diet. She's doing
everything right, but she's just like
constantly stressed out to the extreme.
mental stress until a point where I
said, "You know what? We have to handle
this stress. Go on a vacation, change
your environment." So, she did this
vacation. She comes back. She lost a ton
of weight and she did not change her
diet. In fact, she ate more food. She
kept the low carb in, but she was
relaxed and she had lower stress. So,
keeping your stress down, getting sleep
will allow the ketogenic plan to work.
And then let's just mention this number
four, overtraining. I've had people come
in, and I'm not kidding, would work out
six hours a day because they're
desperate to lose weight, right? And
still not lose weight on keto because
they were overtraining because the
benefits of exercise and training occur
when you're recovering and when you're
sleeping. Another lady that I know
lifted over I think it was 2 or 3
million pounds at the gym over a course
of a year and lost only 1 to two pounds.
She was overtraining. I will say she
wasn't sleeping too. These two tie in
together, your exercise and sleep have
to be at the right ratio. Now let's talk
about number five. Bile and gallbladder
and liver. So your liver makes bile. The
bile is something to help you break down
fats. The bile comes down a tube called
the bile duct and it gets stored in the
gallbladder. And so when you eat, the
gallbladder contracts and now the small
intestines have this super concentrated
bile to help you break down the fats. So
then the pancreas can release enzymes to
take it to the next level. So now the
fat is at the very tiniest level. So,
you can start pulling in fats, soluble
vitamins, omega-3 fats, and all the
benefits that you can get from fat. But
if your liver is fatty, your thyroid, it
doesn't get activated if there's a
problem with the liver. We need healthy
bile and and a healthy gallbladder and a
healthy liver for the thyroid to work.
And so, so many people are trying to fix
the thyroid, but really the problem is
the liver. So, I'm just pointing it out
because if you're trying to lose weight
or you're trying to do this and you have
a fatty liver or there's some problem
with your bile or your gallbladder,
going on a ketogenic diet might not help
you. Everything's going to get jammed up
down here and you're going to get like
bloating and then the pressure will back
up in the liver and cause discomfort on
the back part of your upper trap through
here or even that refers down to the
right arm. And you're wondering what is
going on. I thought the ketogenic diet
was supposed to be healthy. Let's talk
about fat for a second because you can
definitely overdo it. If you're eating
three meals a day and eating cookies,
you're not going to lose any weight
because yes, you may be burning fat, but
you're burning the dietary fat. I always
pair the ketogenic diet with
intermittent fasting at the same time
because if you're not eating, you're
going to lower insulin and then that's
going to allow you to go into ketosis.
So getting on the ketogenic plan without
intermittent fasting, instead you are
snacking on fat. Oh my gosh, you're not
going to see results. So it's very
important to pair the frequency of
meals. Cut out your snacks and then cut
out your breakfast. What you should
notice is your hunger is going to go
down. You're no longer going to crave
the wrong things.
This means you're in ketosis, but it
doesn't mean you're burning fat. When
you start doing this, only eat when
you're hungry and don't eat if you're
not hungry. Don't eat out of habit
because you actually are eating your own
fat between the meals. Initially, I
recommend higher fat, but as you get
into fat burning and you can actually go
from one meal to the next more
comfortably, you might want to lower the
amount of dietary fat. And I'm not
saying go low fat. I'm just saying don't
add extra fat like the MCT oil and all
the different desserts that are out
there that you can make as recipes with
tons of butter. And number six, we've
mentioned about the thyroid. The thyroid
is responsible for a lot of your
metabolism, health, and energy. You need
the liver for a good thyroid, but also
there's some key nutrients that allow
you to convert the inactive T4 to the
active T3. iodine,
selenium,
and zinc. And the reason I bring this up
is if your thyroid is hypo, it's not
working for some reason, and you go on
the ketogenic diet and you don't see
weight loss, well, maybe you need to
work on the thyroid. Okay, let's go to
number seven. Gut microbes. One of the
big side effects when someone takes an
antibiotic, a lot of times they'll gain
weight after that. So that's a real
common side effect. Weight gain after an
antibiotic. So the microbes that you
have in your gut are so important in
helping you with your metabolism, weight
loss, and many other things. Even think
about in the animal industry, one of the
ways they fatten up chickens and cattle
is they give them antibiotics. There's a
huge connection between gut microbes and
your weight. And so if there's a problem
in your gut and you go on keto and you
don't lose weight, you need to fix the
gut microbes. There's also a really
great microbe. It's called Lutery. I've
done some videos on this. You can make
this cultured yogurt mixture with
Lutery. It helps a lot of people lose
weight because you're reestablishing a
very key microbe that is usually missing
in most people, especially if they have
a history of antibiotics. What about
number eight, the sun in vitamin D? If
you notice, people lose more weight and
they're less depressed in the summer and
then in the winter it might be harder to
lose weight because vitamin D is one of
the most important vitamins to prevent
against insulin resistance. It's highly
connected and associated to diabetes. If
you're low in vitamin D, you will go
very quickly from insulin resistance to
pre-diabetes to diabetes. But if you
have enough vitamin D, it can
potentially protect you. But the sun
gives you additional things. The sun
gives you an increase of melatonin. If
you make more melatonin in the cells,
not only you going to sleep better,
you're going to have a more powerful
antioxidant because that's another
function of melatonin. Also, serotonin
goes up, so your mood's going to go up.
You're going to be less depressed. And
so, let's say, for example, you go on
the ketogenic diet, but you get no sun.
And you wonder, why aren't I losing
weight? Why aren't I getting rid of my
diseases, my diabetes? Again, keto is
one piece of the puzzle. What I'm saying
is a lot of these things are going to
prevent keto from working. Okay, let's
talk about number nine, atrophy. It's a
loss of muscle. Muscle helps you use the
fat and use the stored sugar in your
body as fuel. And so, this whole muscle
thing is very, very important. And the
more atrophy that you have, the less the
keto is going to work, especially if
you're focused on weight loss. A much
better indicator to know that keto is
working is that, oh wow, I'm getting
stronger. So, in other words, if you
have that problem, you are not going to
see weight loss right away. What you
will see is your legs getting stronger,
which is good. Your appetite going down,
that means it's working. Because the
worst thing in the world is if you start
on a ketogenic diet and you're doing
exercise and you're including all these
things, you're not losing weight. you
thinking it's not working and then you
give up when it was working. You just
have to give it more time. And sometimes
it takes months uh to really achieve
what you want to achieve, especially if
you're trying to regrow the muscles
back. And that brings me to number 10,
defining what normal is. And let's just
take weight loss because that's the main
thing people do keto for. The initial
weight loss is going to be water weight.
between 1 lb and 11 lbs in that first
week just by going a low carb because
carbs tend to retain a lot of fluid.
What about after you got rid of all the
excess fluid? Then how much
hypothetically can you lose? Typically
people will tell you you can lose about
2 lbs a week, but that's for a really
healthy younger person. Sometimes it'll
be no weight loss because you're
building up muscle. It's atrophy. it's
atrophy that you're trying to address
and you have to fix that first. So, I
think the best things to focus on when
you do this is getting rid of the
appetite. Okay? Being able to go from
one meal to the next without hunger.
That means it's working and also feeling
stronger, having more energy, having a
better mood. Okay? I've already touched
on this frequent meals. This is like so
important. If you're stuck on keto
because you're doing low carb, the
biggest most fruitful thing you could do
is to fast longer. Who says you need to
eat every single day? There was times
where we didn't eat three meals a day or
even once a day. It's very healthy to
match the habits and routines from our
ancient ancestors. So, doing longer fast
is going to be the secret to achieving
the benefits from a low carb diet. All
right, I just want to mention cheat day.
I don't know whoever came up with this,
but a lot of times people say, "Well,
when can I have a cheat day?" And some
people will just do a cheat day like
every third day. Oh my gosh, it takes a
few days to get into ketosis, but it
takes a few minutes to bump you out of
ketosis. So, if you're doing a cheat day
every other day or every third day,
you're not going to see any results. If
you want the full benefit of keto, just
don't do a cheat day. Okay? I've already
talked about the fat.
Keto is dangerous. You'll probably hear
this on the news all the time. I will
guarantee every single study they found
keto doesn't work. If you actually read
the study, it's either an observational
study based on questionnaires, which is
just all BS. It it doesn't prove
anything, or it's going to be a keto
like diet. Keto and keto like are not
the same at all. completely different.
So, it was a completely invalid study
because they were feeding someone way
too many carbs which invalidated the
ketogenic diet because ketogenic diet
you're only doing like 5% carbs and so
they will say, "Oh, keto will help you
for the short term." But we don't know
what happens long term. So, they put a
little doubt in there and then people
get discouraged. I want to mention this
one thing right here, no sugars. So,
when you're reading labels and it says,
"Oh, no sugar." And but the carbs are
still high, realize that you're going to
have starch in there. Those starches are
actually sugar. Okay? It's hidden sugar
on a chain. So, even though it doesn't
say sugar, it still has sugar, but it's
just not labeled as sugar. What this is
really about is fixing something called
metabolic inflexibility. The cells are
in an environment with a lot of fuel,
but they can't use it. That is the
common thing in most chronic disease
because the body has created something
called insulin resistance. It's
protecting you against this junk food,
but at the same time, you're starving
the body of glucose. There's another way
of delivering food into that tissue,
into your brain cells, deep inside the
body. And that other way is through
ketosis because ketones can bypass the
damage of this cell that has a problem
with its metabolism and get direct fuel
right into that cell. And this is why
it's so healing and so important and why
you can actually reverse diabetes within
10 weeks. To really get the details on
how to do the healthy version of the
ketogenic diet with intermittent
fasting, I put this video up right here.
Check it out right now.
