Today we're going to talk about why you
should consume three to four eggs every
single day. Now I will say that eggs are
an extraordinary topic and believe me
I'm not an extremist with eggs but I do
consume eggs every single day. So before
I dive in the topic, if you have even
the slightest hesitancy about eggs
because of cholesterol, you can take
that idea and just get it out of your
head because eggs in no way, shape, or
form have ever created a cholesterol
problem. So that was a lot of
propaganda. I'm going to put some new
research down below in the description
if you have any hesitancy whatsoever.
But what I really want to dive into
right off the bat is why is an egg so
special? Why is it so different than
other types of protein like meats or
fish? First of all, when you're eating
animal protein in general, you're eating
the muscle part. The muscle is
responsible for contraction and
relaxation and movement. But the egg
doesn't do that, okay? It's something
that's going to turn into a chicken. So,
let me just explain the difference as
far as protein. Eggs have the highest
biological value as far as protein. What
the heck does that mean? It means that
it absorbs the most protein in your
tissues. Absorption. Egg is at the top
of the list. The second point is when
we're talking about protein. Why do we
need protein? Generally, we need it to
build muscle like tendons, ligaments,
joints, etc. But we also need it for
repair because our bodies are constantly
repairing our protein structures. Does
it have any other purposes? Yes, it
does. It helps you build hormones. It
helps build enzymes to allow
biochemistry to occur. But protein can
also be used as a fuel source. But now
let's just compare and contrast regular
meat and egg protein for that. When you
consume animal meat or fish, I'm talking
about the muscle part. You could only
use between 10 and 20% of that for fuel.
Okay? Now, if you actually have a fatty
piece of meat, well, you can use that
fat for fuel, but I'm talking about just
the protein itself. At the max, you can
only use 20% of that as fuel. Okay. Now,
what about egg? Well, the egg has the
egg yolk, and that's a lot of fat. That
can be used as fuel. So, in other words,
if we take a look at the entire egg, 65%
of that egg can be used as fuel. And
that also relates to people uh that are
eating more lean meat. They're not going
to be able to use as much of that for
fuel. You know, there's experiments
where people lived on rabbit meat, which
is extremely lean and they got really
sick and some of them even died because
of the problem with the fuel. You can't
live 100% on protein. So, the egg has
some serious advantages over other types
of proteins. I mean, you could literally
live on eggs for the rest of your life
and be pretty healthy. But that is not
all.
This egg has some additional things that
meat doesn't have. It has a lot more
protection. Okay, what do I mean by
protection? Well, in this egg you have
all sorts of anti-microbial
proteins. This is in the white part.
What do I mean by antimicrobial? I mean
things that can actually kill off
bacteria. The egg white also has some
things in there that can lock up iron,
but also it can lock up vitamin B7,
which is biotin. Now, I don't know if
you ever heard that if you consume
the raw egg white, there's something in
there that can actually deplete you of
biotin. I don't know if you've ever
heard that before, but weightlifterss
sometimes would consume a whole bunch of
raw eggs in a shake and drink that. And
some of them were getting a biotin
deficiency. But of course, if you heat
up the egg white and you cook it, uh,
that thing goes away. So, you don't have
to worry about eggs depleting biotin.
But the point is that the reason why
that compound is in eggs in the first
place is that certain pathogens
depend on biotin. And if you can lock
that up, you can eliminate the bad
bacteria. Again, another defensive
protective purpose of the egg. Also,
eggs have all of the essential amino
acids, including leucine, which is the
key amino acid that helps build muscle.
Eggs also are the second highest source
of choline, which is a B vitamin.
Choline is really good to prevent a
fatty liver. It's also something that
makes up your bile to help you digest
fats. And it's also really beneficial
for those people that have a genetic
problem that can help repair DNA damage.
Now, I'm going to give you a new word
that you may have not heard about. It's
called methylation, which is basically
something in your body that can help DNA
repair, detoxification,
and also something to help make
neurotransmitters. And the only reason
I'm bringing this up is that a lot of
people have a genetic issue with this.
And so they can have problems if they
don't get enough choline, if they don't
get enough natural B12, which is in the
egg, and they don't get enough folate,
which is also in the egg. So in other
words, a lot of people that have a
genetic problem with this are going to
get enough choline, and they're going to
benefit from that. In fact, with my
genetics, I found that I have a problem
absorbing choline. And this is why eggs
are really good for me. Another thing
that eggs have very powerful
antioxidants called luteine and
zeazanthin are concentrated in the
retina of your eye to act as a natural
protection against ultraviolet light as
well as blue light that can destroy
certain parts of the eye. So for
example, if we take this eyeball right
here and we open it up right here, in
the back part of that eye, okay, I don't
know if you can see this. In the back
part of the eye, you have the retina and
that is an extension of the brain that
has these cells that pick up information
and push it back into the brain. We need
a super high concentration of luteine
and zeazanthin to protect those cells
and also to be able to see in dim light.
So these are very very important. And
eggs will give you these things. But
it's not just good for the retina. It's
also good for the other parts of the
brain as well to help with
concentration, memory, learning, etc.
All right. What else does an egg have?
Well, it has these interesting things
called phospholipids. Again, I don't
want to give you a bunch of big words.
This is something that helps the
membranes of your brain and other
tissues to allow you to have really good
cognitive function. Also, there's
something in your eggs that actually
mimic an ACE inhibitor which lower blood
pressure because of this thing right
here. Egg also has vitamin K2 to
transport calcium and keep it out of the
soft tissues, the joints, the kidney,
and the arteries and push that calcium
into the teeth and the bone. Okay,
that's K2. It also has the active form
of vitamin A called retinol. Not just
for the eye, but for your skin, the
internal skin through the sinuses,
throughout the lung, throughout the
digestive tract. Vitamin A is also
important for your immune system. And
the egg also has vitamin D. Now, before
you decide that eggs are an excellent
idea to start consuming a lot of them,
we should probably talk about the type
of eggs briefly. Okay, you have
conventional eggs, which by the way, 65%
of all eggs that people consume are
caged. Okay, what does that mean, caged?
That means that that chicken their
entire life is confined to a very small
space of 8 in by 8 8 in. That's going to
raise cortisol. Okay, you don't want to
support that. I would not consume just
caged eggs. cage free gives them a
little more space, like two square feet.
Okay, that's a little bit better. Um,
they might have access outside the barn,
they might not, but they're in a very
large facility
with other chickens. It's still not that
great, but pasture-raised is much
better. At least they get 10 ft by 10 ft
outdoors. Okay, this is what I would
consume. or even when you're at the
farmers market, find a farmer to get
eggs from. It's going to be better. Of
course, if you can have your own
chickens like I do, that would be the
ultimate. You need to know also the
conventional eggs are loaded with fake
colorings. I mean, when you think about
it, the color of that egg is reflecting
how much of these carotenoids you have,
but it's all fake. Now, what about
organic? Organic eggs do not tell you if
they're in a cage or not. They just mean
that the feed that they give them are
like grains without pesticides and
insecticides, herbicides and fungicides.
So, of course, that's better. If you can
do organic pasture, that would be great.
And then that means it doesn't have the
GMO grain foods. Okay? it's not sprayed
with glyphosate, but there are some
loopholes there, especially if they're
using uh wheat to feed them because they
can spray it with glyphosate and it
could still be considered non-GMO. And
don't be impressed when they say
vegetarian feed because it's like, oh
wow, vegetarian feed versus what? I
mean, I feed my chickens a lot of
different foods. They love love cheese.
They will eat so many different things.
And if I put grains versus some protein,
they will go right after that protein
source. I'm talking about meat. And so
chickens were evolved to consume bugs
and things like that, not necessarily
just a lot of grains and not GMO corn
and soy. So in other words, conventional
chickens that are fed a lot of corn and
soy, which is genetically modified,
you're just really spiking the omega-6
fatty acids in that egg, and that is
more inflammatory. There are eggs that
you can get that are to increase the
omega-3 fatty acids. I'm doing an
experiment with my chickens right now.
I'm feeding them a type of grain that's
much higher in omega-3 than omega6. Stay
tuned for the results on that. All
right. Now, let's give you some tips on
what you should combine your eggs with.
Here's a couple things to think about.
When you're consuming eggs, if you pair
it with an arugula salad, you are going
to increase the absorption of the
phytonutrients in arugula by 9x because
of the egg yolk. It's fat and a lot of
the phytonutrients in all these greens
and the salads are fat soluble. So,
that's a really good combination to
optimize uh your health. I consume a lot
of onions definitely with my eggs. I
will sauté them. You enhance your
detoxification pathways. When you add
black pepper to your eggs, which I
always do, in sea salt, you increase the
absorption of the carotenoids. Don't
overcook them. I mean, sometimes this is
hard when you're out at a restaurant and
you're having breakfast or something,
they can overcook it. I like to cook my
eggs over easy with the yolk runny or if
I'm doing scrambled eggs, uh, just cook
it so it's just done but not overly
done. It's a minor point, but you'll
just get more nutrients if you don't
overdo it. Adding a tomato with your
eggs is a good thing in season. I do
that all summer long when I have these
delicious tomatoes. Oh my gosh, every
single day I do that. Tomatoes have a
lot of great things, but at the top of
the list is something called lycopine.
This is the probably one of the most
potent antioxidants or carotenoids that
you can consume that is really good for
the inside of your artery, for your
prostate. It's good for your eyes. It's
good for your brain. But I just want to
make this point. If this is too
expensive, because sometimes they are,
and you can just afford at this point
conventional eggs, do it. Because
there's enough nutrition in that
conventional egg that is way better than
these conventional sources of protein
that you would see that a lot of times
are combining different sugars and
starches because they're not just
protein. They add a bunch of stuff in
there. So even conventional eggs are
going to benefit your health. Another
thing I add is the avocado. The fats in
avocado are super super healthy. And
because you're consuming the whole
avocado, you're getting the fresh raw
oils or fatty acids which are super
healthy. Unfortunately, most avocado oil
is refined. It's cooked. It's oxidized
unless you get coldressed. And even
then, the regulations on avocado oil are
very, very loose right now. So, you
really have to verify where you get the
avocado oil. And so, when you cook that
egg, I recommend using olive oil or
butter. Now, you have to just be careful
um anytime you heat any oil. But because
olive oil is just also loaded with so
many protective phytonutrients
and you don't overcook it, I think
you're going to be fine with that. Now,
I hope I've convinced you to consume at
least one of your meal with eggs. But
the question now is, what type of
protein should you use on the other meal
or meals? Well, for that information,
you should watch this video right here.
