Let's talk about the seven foods that
will destroy your metabolism. First of
all, when I talk about a destroyed
metabolism, I am talking about a slow
metabolism. So, we can go a longer
period of time with a smaller amount of
calories. That's actually a damaged
metabolism. Because if you look at the
cells and look deeply into the cells,
you see these little mitochondria. These
little guys adapt not by slowing down
your metabolism, but by making it run
longer on smaller amount of calories.
So, the real situation that's happening
with the damaged metabolism is there's
all of these available calories, but our
body cannot use them. So, if you really
want to know what's happening with
metabolic dysfunction, you have all of
this fuel available, but it's not
available to the cells. So, if you were
in your house, but you had a chain lock
on your refrigerator and your pantry,
the food's there, but you just don't
have access to it. So, then the body
copes with that and it adapts by
becoming more efficient, but really it's
not a good thing because you gain
weight, okay? And you have health
problems. So, today I'm going to talk
about foods that destroy your metabolism
that you might think are healthy. In
fact, you might have in your
refrigerator and your pantry the foods
I'm going to talk about. So, let's talk
about number one, fruit juice, 100%
squeezed orange juice. The problem is
they're taking out all of the fiber.
They usually pasteurize it, they cook
it, and they have to add the vitamin C
back in there because heat destroys the
vitamin C, and they might promote it as
being high in vitamin C, but it's the
added vitamin C synthetically, which by
the way, it comes from cornstarch and
sulfuric acid. Very different than the
vitamin C in nature.
But the big problem with fruit juice is
that it's 55%
fructose, okay? Now, fructose is a
different type of sugar. All of your
cells in your body can take in glucose,
but only the liver can take in fructose.
So, it's a lot of stress for the liver.
It causes problems with the liver,
especially if you're consuming too much
of it because you're literally drinking
liquid sugar. Like in one glass, it's
like 21 g of sugar. If you compare that
to a soda, a soda could literally have
just a couple more grams of sugar. So,
soda and juice are very similar in
fructose. And so, you're overloading the
liver with a lot of this fructose, which
actually causes the liver to be fatty
and creates belly fat, and it creates a
metabolic problem. And so many people
are consuming this thinking that this is
a healthier version of soda, when in
fact, it's probably pretty equivalent to
drinking a soda because of the fructose,
okay? If you had a choice between fruit
juice and fruit, give your children the
actual fruit. That way it comes with the
fiber and not just the refined sugar
that comes out of it. Number two, seed
oils. They are still considered healthy
oils, when in fact, they are pretty
deadly for the heart and your
metabolism. You're not taking vegetables
and squeezing out the oil. You're taking
these seeds like corn, canola,
cottonseed, soybean. All of them are
genetically modified. All of them are
sprayed with an herbicide, and you're
taking those in an industrial process
and you're bleaching them, you're adding
heat, you're refining them. I mean,
think about it. These are very delicate
oils, and you're going to add all this
heat and all these chemicals, and then
you're going to deodorize it, and you're
going to say that it's good for the
heart. And on top of that, between 25
and 30% of our calories are this. It's
in salad dressings. It's in all of the
ultra-processed foods. It unfortunately
lodges into our membranes and messes up
our receptors creating problems with our
metabolism including insulin resistance.
In fact, almost every single restaurant
that you go to is going to be cooking
with these seed oils, and it takes like
600 days to get this out of the body.
So, I would start now. Replace them with
extra virgin olive oil. If you ever hear
anyone tell you that seed oils are not a
problem,
just ask them about the byproduct from
the heating during the manufacturing of
this called aldehydes, and ask them
about that product. What about the
aldehydes? Aldehydes are very, very
toxic. Every time you heat them and
reheat them, like they do at the fast
food restaurants, you're generating
super concentrated amounts of aldehydes,
which create the real damage in the
cells. Next one, I'll probably going to
get in trouble for this, oat milk.
You'll see this in the
health food stores. It's considered a
healthier alternative to milk, right?
Milk from oats. Is it really milk?
No. It's a starch slurry. A starch
is a chain of sugar molecules. So,
starch really is hidden sugar. Not to
mention they're probably also adding
more sugar to it on top of the starch
sugar that's already in there. It's in a
lot of coffee shops, it's in grocery
stores, but realize when you're
consuming it, especially if you're
consuming it in the morning, you're
going to be spiking your blood sugar
because it has a glycemic index close to
sugar. Once you consume a carbohydrate
breakfast or something that's going to
spike your blood sugar in the morning,
you're going to notice that your
cravings go up and down through the day.
You're going to be hungry at certain
times, especially at night, you're going
to want snacks, and you're also going to
feel mentally a little foggy because the
blood sugar issue is going to be up and
down. Now, I'm not telling people to
consume milk if you have a problem with
milk, but oat milk is not the healthier
version of milk because starch turns
into sugar, and that destroys the
metabolism. I mean, a much better
alternative would be unsweetened coconut
milk or maybe even unsweetened macadamia
milk. At least that's a little bit
better because the starch is very low
and it has healthy fats. So, a lot of
people ask me, "What supplements do I
recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not
biased with my own high-quality
supplement line, but if you go to Amazon
and type Dr. Berg supplements,
you'll find more information. The next
one is agave nectar. Here's another one
that you would see at the health food
store. It's sitting right next to the
maple syrup and the honey. I mean, come
on, it comes from a natural source,
right? But gram for gram, it is the
worst thing you can put in your mouth.
Why? Remember I talked about the
fructose situation in fruit juice, which
has 55% fructose? Take a wild guess how
much fructose is in agave nectar.
Between 70 to 90% fructose. Now, think
about that. It's going to put so much
stress and so much fat into the liver,
which is going to spill off into
visceral fat. It's going to create belly
fat. But not only that, it's going to
affect insulin resistance in your cells
and really destroy your metabolism.
There's no other sweetener that I know
of that has that high amount of
fructose. And what's really interesting
on the glycemic index, it's low. Why?
Because the glycemic index is looking at
mainly glucose. And if you add in
fructose to the glucose in there, it
brings it down giving you the appearance
that it's not going to spike your blood
sugar. Well, it's going to go to the
liver and it's going to create a lot of
problems with that. Next one is kombucha
tea. I'm not talking about the kombucha
that you're going to make at home. I'm
talking about the stuff you would buy at
the health food store. When I first
heard about this, I was consuming it. I
was promoting it. I did videos on it.
But if you look at the kombucha tea now,
very expensive bottles of kombucha, and
you read the label, the amount of sugar
is between 12 to 20 g per container.
Whereas when they first started, it was
only like 2 g.
Why is that? Because they got lazy. The
manufacturing of kombucha, apparently
now, is very, very quick. They don't let
the microbes actually eat up all the
sugar. So, you end up with a lot more
sugar in this product, which then feeds
pathogens, yeast, fungus. So, if you're
going to have kombucha tea, make it
yourself and ferment it for a lot
longer. So, that way the microbes can
eat up all that sugar. And it's a really
good substitute for beer and even wine
because it calms people down, and it's
carbonated. The texture is similar to
beer, but the kombucha they sell in the
health food store, start reading the
labels because they're also adding other
juice to it to sweeten it, to make it
taste good, and there's just like
massive amounts of sugar, which again,
mess with your metabolism. Okay, next
one is protein powder. Now, I'm not
against protein, okay? What I am against
is the bulk protein powders that they
sell, especially at gyms and health food
stores. I'm going to buy this protein
powder to gain more mass and get bigger.
Well, take a look at the first
ingredient. It's not protein. It's the
maltodextrin filler as the main
ingredient that literally has
over 1,000 calories per serving. So,
you're getting this hidden sugar, but
it's not even classified as a sugar.
It's a carbohydrate or starch. It's
called maltodextrin. And yes, it's going
to increase insulin, and their rationale
is, "Well, insulin is an anabolic
hormone, so it's going to help you gain
weight." It's going to actually make you
fat. If you want good protein, consume
meat, actual real protein. And number
seven,
starch. Now, I'm not talking about
necessarily your grandma's potatoes. I'm
talking about industrial starch. It's
hidden as just carbohydrate and
ultra-processed food. We already
mentioned maltodextrin, which comes from
corn, which is a filler. It's really
bad.
But there are other starches as well.
Modified corn starch, modified food
starch, tapioca starch. Those are
industrial starches. But when you see
the word modified, that takes it to the
next level. That is an additional series
of chemicals that are used in processing
that starch
to take something and change it so much
that it's no longer even close to being
identified to the original structure
that it came from. It's so refined. And
the thing about it, it's not sweet
necessarily, so a person will consume a
lot more of it. An average person
consumes hundreds of pounds of this per
year compared to the sugar, which is a
lot less. So they're not classified as a
sugar, but they act more like a sugar
than sugar acts like a sugar. Now, I
know some of you are depressed that you
just learned all about this and you're
going to have to change up the certain
things in your refrigerator and your
pantry.
I want to now have you focus on what you
can eat, okay? And let's talk about the
seven
healthiest foods that you can eat of all
the other foods in this video right
here. Check it out right now.
