Dr. Burke here. Today we're going to
talk about the top superfoods for your
heart. One really simple way to figure
this out is just to look at what
mainstream medicine is telling you to do
for the heart and go in the exact
opposite direction and you're going to
be super successful because they'll tell
you to make sure you lower your
saturated fat or your cholesterol or
your sodium content and have more fiber.
No, no, no, no. You don't want to do
that. That's not going to help you. Now,
when we talk about superfoods, and yes,
I'm guilty. I used to recommend a lot of
these, and I have videos on it, but gogi
berries, chia seed, flax seed, kale
shakes, spinach shakes, almonds, more
green shakes with different greens,
spirulina, walnuts, blueberries, all are
perceived to be superfoods. But if you
consume these foods, you're going to
feel bloated. you're not going to
actually have a lot of energy. It is
absolutely true that they have a lot of
antioxidants, but they don't have a lot
of the other key nutrients that we need
that are essential. And the big one I'm
talking about is protein, amino acids.
Unless you get enough protein, you're
not going to feel really good. I mean,
just do an experiment. Go ahead and
start living on these foods and see how
you feel. You're going to feel very,
very weak and very, very tired. So,
these are not the superfoods that we're
going to recommend. Instead, we need to
eat foods that are nutrientdense that
have the active form of vitamin A. Hemi
B12, DHA, and EPA reduce inflammation.
These are called omega-3. Walnuts and
flax seed have the precursor to DHA and
EPA is a fat called ALA, and the
conversion is not too great. And none of
these right here have high quality
complete protein, and they don't have
high levels of zinc. So, now let's get
into what foods you should be consuming
that are considered a superfood for the
heart. Number one, red meat. The exact
food that they tell you to avoid for a
heart problem. You're going to feel so
good when you start to increase more
highquality red meat. I'm talking about
grass-fed meat. You can get red meat
from lamb as well and other animals. The
big thing that red meat has is the super
high quality amino acids that really
supports the mitochondria in the heart
muscle itself. Red meat is very high in
carnitine and carnitine supports the
mitochondria which is the powerhouse
that gives the heart a lot of energy.
Also co-enzyme Q10 which is a real key
essential nutrient for that
mitochondria. And by the way statins
which is a very popular drug deplete
this key nutrient that's very vital for
the heart. So, if you are on a statin,
you definitely need to take this right
here or you'll end up with muscle
problems because muscle, especially the
heart muscle, needs mitochondria and it
needs this. It's called a co-actor. Now,
one of the saturated fats in red meat is
called steic acid. It actually helps
fuse together fragments of mitochondria
to make them whole again, making the
mitochondria more efficient. And so if
you notice the common thread with red
meat is you really support the
mitochondria and so steic acid can help
you with the mitochondria but also it's
actually very important in helping you
burn more fat. Red meat also contains
this other compound called carnosine
which is a very important antioxidant
for certain problems with the heart. Red
meat is loaded with zinc which is also
involved in over 200 different
biochemical reactions. And then we have
B12. B12 helps to lower something called
homocyine which if that compound is too
high in the heart, it can create
problems of the heart. So B12 helps that
keep it in check. Let's roll right into
number two. Butter. Now I know what
you're going to say like, "Wow, I
thought butter was bad for the heart."
No, it's not. Grass-fed butter is very
healthy for the heart. It's loaded with
vitamin K2. It keeps the calcium out of
the arteries and it also has butyrate.
Butyrate reduces gut inflammation,
CLA. This is a compound that helps
improve insulin resistance. When people
have insulin resistance, they have a lot
of problems with the heart. Butter also
has the active form of vitamin A, not
the precursors, which also helps heal
and reduce inflammation on the internal
part of the body, including that inner
layer of the artery called the
endothelial layer. And of course, butter
has steeric acid. Number three, egg
yolk. Not just the egg white. We've been
told for many years that egg yolks are
very bad because they're loaded with the
cholesterol and that's going to plug up
your arteries. Well, just so happens
that that was absolutely not true. Egg
yolks are super healthy and they have
something very unique in them. They have
a lot of choline. Choline helps prevent
a fatty liver. If your liver becomes
fatty, it could spill over into the
heart. There's a condition called
epicardial fat, which is fat around the
heart, which is probably one of the
biggest biomarkers of heart longevity
and heart health. Because when you have
fat around the heart, that's not good.
And unfortunately, we were told that
saturated fats are bad, but unsaturated
fats are good, like the seed oils. So,
people have been consuming a lot of them
for many, many years. And those seed
oils can embed into the cell membranes
and really mess them up. And it takes
about 600 days to get them out once you
stop consuming seed oils. But with egg
yolks, the choline in there can help
support those membranes, which is very,
very important with insulin receptors
and other things crossing the membrane.
And the other thing that egg has that's
very important is cholesterol. That's
right. Cholesterol is the building block
to make bile salts. Your gallbladder is
the main route for excess cholesterol.
So if your liver has too much
cholesterol, you need this bile to get
rid of the excess cholesterol. But bile
is made from cholesterol. Also, vitamin
D from the sun interacts with
cholesterol just underneath your skin to
make vitamin D. So we need cholesterol
for bile, vitamin D, and you need
cholesterol to make certain hormones.
Also, egg yolks are loaded with vitamin
K2 to keep the calcium out of the
arteries. Egg yolks also have certain
type of carotenoids like luteine and
zeazanthin, which they're also good for
the internal part of the arteries. Let's
talk about number four, cheese. I'm not
talking about American cheese. I'm
talking about the good stuff usually get
from Europe, the raw unaged cheese.
Charlesberg cheese has the most K2 of
any cheeses. And a lot of the other hard
cheeses also are loaded with vitamin K2.
This is the key vitamin that actually
not only keeps the arteries free of
calcium, but also it's a nutrient for
the mitochondria. There are certain,
they're called peptides, which are small
little change of amino acids in cheese
that are natural ACE inhibitors to help
with blood pressure. Number five,
shellfish. Now, wait a second. I heard
that shellfish was very high in mercury.
Well, it does have mercury in it, but it
also is loaded with selenium. And
selenium helps bind that mercury, so it
becomes neutralized. So, you don't have
to worry about the mercury in the
shellfish. What shellfish does provide,
and I'm talking about oysters, muscles,
and clams, is a really good amount of
omega-3 fatty acids, the active form of
DHA and EPA. Okay, that's really
important. But the other thing is the
trace minerals are off the charts. And
unfortunately, our foods are depleted of
trace minerals because their soils are
depleted of trace minerals. And so the
production of protein like your hair,
nails, skin, the ability to detoxify
your body, the ability to make energy,
all depend on these co-actors. And trace
minerals are a really big part of it.
Number six, organ meats. And of course,
the liver that I'm recommending is the
grass-fed, grass-finish liver, but our
ancestors consumed a lot of organ meats.
Sometimes even some of the native tribes
would give the dogs the meat and the
tribes would eat the organ meats. But
I'm not just talking about liver. I'm
talking about heart, kidney, brain.
These are all things that very few
people consume nowadays. I'm going to
put a link down below of a company, US
Wellness Meats, that has hamburgers with
some of these organ meats in them. But I
think that would be a great way to hide
these organ meats because some people
don't like the taste. Like I don't like
the taste of liver. So I have to have it
hidden in different foods. I get my
liver from cod liver. You can get that
in a can. Cod liver has the most omega-3
of anything. And I'll consume maybe one
or two cans of cod liver every single
week. But what's in these organ meats?
Well, there's different things in
different organs. If we take a look at
what's in the heart muscle that's very
very high co-enzyme Q10 the heart has
the most and I do know in certain
European cultures and countries they
make sausage with these organ meats
vitamin A is in organ meats you're going
to get the most vitamin A from liver and
if you think about vitamin A yes it's
good for the eyes it's good for the
inner skin it's good for the arteries
and it's good for the immune system so
organ meats are also loaded with B12 to
help your red blood cells and copper
that will help you make collagen because
your arteries are made out of collagen.
It's a kind of a flexible protein. Let's
get into number seven, fermented foods.
Now, of course, you have sauerkraut,
kimchi, kefir, all of the things I
consume on a regular basis to help feed
the microbiome, which is also very, very
important for heart health. But there's
one fermented product called NATO. Super
high in vitamin K2, but it's also high
in another compound called NATO kynise.
It's a very effective compound to reduce
clotting. Number eight, sea salt is not
a food, but okay. Well, it might not be
a food, but it's something that we put
on our food. Himalayan sea salt, right?
What is the difference between sea salt
and regular salt? Sea salt has like 80
or 90 minerals. Regular refined salt has
two. Sometimes they add stuff to it like
anti-caking
chemical. Sometimes they add aluminum to
it. They will tell you you need to go
low salt for the heart because we don't
want to increase blood pressure. And
this is something that's been
indoctrinated to us. People are so
afraid of salt. Well, guess what?
Recently, they found that is not true.
They found that not everyone needs to
have a low salt diet. When you go low
salt, you now trigger this hormone. It's
called renin that increase the blood
pressure from the low salt. Now, I'm not
telling you to have like a massive
amount of salt. You just need adequate
salt because there's certain people that
are salt sensitive. If they have too
much, they might have high blood
pressure. But that usually is from low
amounts of potassium, not high amounts
of sodium. The point is when you go too
low with your sodium, you can end up
with a lot of other additional problems
and one being high blood pressure. Okay?
Also, the next one being high cortisol.
One of the little simple health hacks
that I recommend that seems to work
really good is to take a little extra
salt if you have a problem going to
sleep at night. And you're going to find
that you'll sleep a lot better. And so,
one indication that you're low in salt
is number one, if you have problems
going to sleep or staying asleep. And
number two is if you crave salt. You
want to start adding more salt to your
food, not go for the chips. And also, if
you're low in salt, it can increase your
risk of getting insulin resistance,
which is actually the real cause of high
blood pressure. Plus, on top of that,
you need sodium chloride to increase
more chloride to build up hydrochloric
acid for stomach acid. And so, if you
don't have enough stomach acid, you get
acid reflux, you get acid indigestion,
you get more bloating, and that also
could indirectly affect your heart and
your sleeping. Number nine, fatty fish.
I'm talking about salmon, okay? Wild
called salmon. Omega-3 fatty acids.
Super important for the heart. But don't
forget about the smaller fish, sardines.
Great way to get your omega-3.
Anchovies, mackerel, and let's not
forget about number 10, collagen. I'm
talking about bone broth, the skin on
the fish or the chicken. And so when you
eat collagen, it doesn't just all turn
into the collagen on your body. 90% of
it actually goes into a pool of amino
acids that your body will use for
whatever it needs. But 10%
of this collagen is not broken down
fully into amino acids. Instead, 10% of
that collagen is in these peptide
chains. A peptide is a series of amino
acids on a chain. So these get absorbed
in the intestines, go into the blood and
act as a signaling molecule, a messenger
to tell the body to make collagen and
repair collagen. And if you don't have
enough collagen, you end up getting
rigid arteries. And the reason I'm even
talking about this is that when you
consume the meat that we eat nowadays,
you're only getting between 1 and 3%
collagen when we really need a lot more.
And if you're just living on like tender
steak and easy to eat protein, you're
not getting enough collagen. I
personally add collagen to my coffee
every morning and I get enough collagen
I don't have to worry about it through
the rest of the day. And since we're on
the topic of the heart, I did another
video on how to unclog your heart and I
put all the information in this video
right here. You should check it out
right now.
