The number one cause of heart disease is
not what you think. I called up a heart
surgeon, a friend, Dr. Philip Ovedia,
and I asked, "Do you ever see this
problem when you do open heart
surgeries, and he said nearly 100% of
the time, it's a type of visceral fat
around the heart itself. What's unique
about this fat is it directly contacts
the heart muscle and the arteries
itself. So that means the inflammation
from this type of fat goes directly into
the heart first before any other place
in the body. The big question is what
causes this layer of fat? And so the key
to this whole story is insulin. If
insulin is high, you're going to get
really fat. You're going to start
gaining weight. When insulin is low,
everything is reversed. You're going to
lose weight and get rid of fat,
especially the fat surrounding the
heart. This problem with the fat around
the heart relates to something called
insulin resistance. Very simply, the
receptor for insulin, it's no longer
accepting insulin. That's what insulin
resistance is. And now the problem is
where does the fat go? Accumulates
around the liver as a fatty liver. It
accumulates around the organs as
visceral fat. I'm going to give you uh
seven clues to determine if you have
insulin resistance. Number one, if
you're a guy and your waist is greater
than 40 in, chances are you have insulin
resistance. If you're a female and you
have a waist size that's over 35 in,
chances are you might have insulin
resistance. Next one, if you have a skin
tag or even like this uh darkened
pigment skin underneath the armpits in
your groin, think insulin resistance. If
your triglycerides are high or you have
low HDL, think insulin resistance. If
you have difficulty losing weight, you
probably have insulin resistance. And
the last clue is that you just can't go
very long without needing a meal.
Fasting is difficult. That's called
insulin resistance. But this leads to a
bigger question. What actually causes
insulin resistance? Yes, starches like
potato, pasta, bread, cereal, crackers,
and all that stuff as well. Definitely
out of a lot of these, uh, fructose is
at the top of the list, but there's
other causes like stress or even having
a chronic problem with your sleep where
you just don't sleep that well. Maybe
you have sleep apnea or you just don't
sleep. That can set you up for insulin
resistance. This is why people crave
maybe junk food or sugar if they haven't
slept or they're under stress. But
there's one other big cause to insulin
resistance you need to know about. Seed
oils. That's right. Seed oils. Some
people will say the omega-6 fatty acids
are essential, which they are. But you
know what? A lot of these studies never
uh look at
oxidation from these oils. You see,
these omega-6 oils are very, very
fragile, very vulnerable to oxygen,
heat, and light. But do you ever notice
when they make seed oils, like this
could sit on the shelf, it doesn't even
have to be refrigerated for a very long
time. How do they get it to do that?
These industrial seed oils are highly
processed with high heats with chemicals
like hexane which is in your gasoline.
And so that when you consume this stuff,
it gets stuck in your cells for like a
year and a half. That is a major
contributor to the insulin receptor
damage on the surface of that cell. And
especially since the average person
consumes literally 25% to 30% of their
calories being these oils. Here a person
is they go on the ketogenic diet, the
low carb diet, and they're not eating
sugars anymore and they're not consuming
starches and they're feeling better, but
maybe their inflammation is not going
away. Maybe they're not reversing their
heart problems and maybe they're not
even correcting insulin resistance
because the ketogenic low carb diet is a
low carb diet. It's not a low seed oil
diet. But if you read my book, I talk
about the healthy version of the
ketogenic diet. I'm talking about doing
the low carb diet with higher quality
ingredients, cooking with butter,
tallow, maybe coconut oil, using olive
oil, not the seed oil dressing. So, one
of the root causes for heart disease is
the epicardial fat, which comes mostly
from the combination of sugar, starches,
but definitely seed oils, aka if you add
all those up, you get ultrarocessed
foods. But the good news is there's some
really quick things to do to get rid of
this fat. So, number one, get rid of the
seed oils. Replace it with healthy oils.
I'll put a link down below for more
details. Number two, go on a low carb,
low starch diet, aka keto diet. The
other interesting thing about this fat
is it's not like regular fat. It's right
in the center. It's like a beige color.
Of course, this is yellow, but it's
really beige, which means it's right in
the middle, but it does respond very
well to things that also stimulate brown
fat, like cold therapy, like taking a
cold shower. Cold immersion tanks are
really good to help with this. It's one
of the fastest way to drop your insulin,
okay? Because it's the chronic insulin
production that really creates the
problem. So, if we just reverse the flow
and not increase insulin by not eating,
we can quickly turn things around. So, I
would recommend two meals a day with
your first one at lunch and your second
one at dinner and absolutely positively
no snacks because it's the snacks that
destroy the ability to get rid of this
fat. And it's something that's been
introduced as a normal thing that we
need to snack between meals, which is
totally the worst habit you can do. And
what's really interesting, the type of
exercise you do matters. I mean, just
one bout of highintensity interval
training can actually make your
receptors for insulin more sensitive
significantly. So, do not forget about
exercise. And that highintensity
interval training works better than a
moderate intensity of running or jogging
a long distance because of the cortisol
spike that happens when you do that. Two
other things that can help you. Number
one is doing apple cider vinegar a few
times a day in some water, like one
tablespoon in a glass of water. And then
bourberine is also something that can
help you speed up the process. And to
get the details on how to do
intermittent fasting, you should watch
this video right here.
