What would happen if you only ate
sardines for five days? Sardines are one
of the most nutrient-dense foods on
planet Earth. It costs less than $2 per
can, and it's not really even on the
radar of many doctors and definitely not
talked about by big pharma because a
clinical trial came out out of Barcelona
that I want to share with you. Roughly,
they had 150 people. They divided them
in two groups. One of the groups just
added two cans of sardines per week and
the other group did not. And the group
that just added two cans of these per
week cut their diabetic risk from 37%
down to 8%. And the lead researcher
called this a huge scientific discovery.
My question was, what would happen if
you added three of these cans every
single day for five straight days? In
one can of sardines, you have basically
23 g of protein. Okay? It's high quality
protein. You have 900 mg of a
combination of EPA and DHA. Both of
these combined are omega-3 fatty acids.
You also have 382 milligrams of calcium.
We have 348% of your B12. You have
vitamin D. You have selenium,
phosphorus, and then we have torine,
which is interesting. I'm going to
actually get into that. But of course,
all of these right here, times three
because you're eating three cans of them
per day. And I want to touch just on
this right here. 900 milligrams of
omega-3 fatty acids, EPA and DHA. Do you
know what an average American consumes?
roughly about 100 milligrams of EPA and
DHA every single day. But if we times
this times three, we're talking about
2700
milligrams of EPA and DHA, which will
take your levels to a whole new range, a
therapeutic level, and the things that
it can fix are mind-blowing. I'm going
to get into that. I highly recommend you
get the sardines with the skin, with the
bones in it, and in extra virgin olive
oil. So, on day one of eating just
sardines, of course, you're going to
have water, electrolytes, if you want to
drink tea or coffee, you can do that. If
you're going to add some cream, just the
tiniest bit of cream. So, what's
happening in the body? Zero
carbohydrates,
zero sugars. The body is going to be
starting to burn fat. It's going to be
switching over from sugar burning to fat
burning starting in day one. Now, during
the process, your body has to burn off
the stored sugar. That's called
glycogen. That's in your liver. So,
within the first 24 hours, that's going
to be lost. A lot of water is attached
to this glycogen. So, you're going to
lose a lot of water weight initially.
And this is why I recommend the
electrolytes. Make sure it has potassium
and magnesium as well as sodium. Now,
this is a very different type of fast
than a prolong fast where you're just
drinking water and taking electrolytes.
you're adding a very high density
protein food, okay, sardines, with a lot
of nutrients. So, for most people, this
is going to be a lot easier because
they're not going to feel weak. They're
actually going to feel stronger and
they're getting a lot of nutrients at
the same time. And so, you could call
this a sardine fast. And also, it would
mimic something called a fasting
mimicking diet because that diet has
shown to produce a lot of benefits. But
we're doing the fasting mimicking diet
with something that's a lot more
nutrient-dense than what most people do
when they're adding smaller amounts of
calories that are not even close to
being as nutrientdense is what we're
going to do. So, in other words, we're
able to mimic the benefits of fasting by
consuming a low calorie diet for 5 days.
The first two days might be a little bit
rough for some people that have never
done this before because they have to
transition into what's called ketosis,
which by the way is a fuel that your
brain will love. But it does take a
couple days to get into this. We're
making this transition by cutting down
the carbs and bringing insulin way, way,
way down. So then your body switches
over to burning your own fat. Many
people never tap into their own fat,
okay? because they'd never reduce the
carbohydrates and the insulin down far
enough to be able to tap in to the fat.
So, basically, this is going to be 5
days of pure fat burning, and your body
is going to be flooding with very
therapeutic ketones. Ketones are
byproducts of fat. Now, I'm going to be
honest with you. On day two, for some
people that have never done this before,
it's going to be a little bit tough. But
you'll have a type of hunger called
dopamine hunger, which is different,
where you would want some variety, like
you would want some chips or something
spicier or something with different
flavor, but you're not going to actually
have hunger pains because your body has
just started to tap into your fat. And
you're actually eating your fat through
this whole process. Even when you're
sleeping, that's what you're living off
of. Because when you don't lower your
carbohydrates or your sugars and your
insulin, you're basically running off
the stored glycogen in your liver. But
we already tap that out. So, we're
basically tapping into pure fat. So, if
given the choice, your brain is going to
want ketones. So, you're going to start
to feed your brain these ketones and
you're going to have mental clarity on
day two. You're going to just start
feeling like very, very focused. You'll
have more attention. Also, if you have
any inflammation in the body, that's
going to start to go down because what
is in these omega-3 fatty acids is
something called resolins that help turn
off inflammation.
But to be able to get enough to do that,
you have to have high doses. Well,
you're consuming literally 2700
milligrams of EPA and DHA. So, you're
going to be able to turn that
inflammation off. Most supplements, if
you look at the amount of DHA and EPA,
you're only talking like 200 milligrams,
okay, per dosage. So, we're doing 2700.
So, your inflammation is going to start
coming down. So, you'll feel looser,
you'll feel better, and your sleep is
going to be better as well. Now, just as
a side note, the mercury question,
because a lot of people avoid fish
because of mercury, I want to give you
some data on mercury in sardines. It's
very very small. It's like 0.013 parts
per billion. Okay, if we compare that to
tuna, like that's 27 times less. But
also realize that you're consuming
selenium, which binds with mercury. So
you don't have to worry about the
mercury problem with sardines. Day
three, this is where it gets
interesting. Okay, if you had brain fog,
that is going to be completely gone.
You're going to wake up feeling a lot
different in your head. You're going to
feel more focused because the ketones
are fully online and they're going to be
feeding your neurons. I mean, if you
think about it, 3 days of getting 288%
of your daily selenium means your
thyroid is converting T4 into T3. So,
you're going to feel like your
metabolism is just working a lot better.
And especially for heat, you're not
going to feel cold. Even if it's cold
outside, you'll go out there and you
just don't feel as cold, okay? Because
your thyroid is working much, much
better. High amounts of omega-3 fatty
acids stimulate brown fat. Let me
explain what brown fat is. Brown fat is
brown because it's super concentrated in
mitochondria. That's the energy
factories. And so when you're
stimulating that type of fat, you are
wasting a lot of energy through heat.
Okay? You're generating heat. So, this
is not a very efficient thing, but it's
a good thing if you're trying to lose
weight because most people with a slow
metabolism, it's slow because it's
efficient, okay? It can go longer on a
small amount of fuel. There's nothing
wasted, but with what we're doing here,
we're wasting a lot of fuel as heat.
It's just a different way that the
mitochondria can deal with this energy.
The other big thing is your appetite.
You're not going to be hungry. your
appetite's going to be gone because your
body is flooded with ketones because
you're finally burning fat. Okay? So,
you are getting fuel 247 and ketones do
suppress something else called ghrein
which basically is the hunger hormone.
So, it's going to suppress that. You
don't have to worry about cravings. Now,
also your gut, you're not going to have
any bloating. If you're used to
bloating, that's gone. Your stomach's
going to start feeling flatter. I mean,
if we compare this diet to doing Ozmpic,
I mean, it's a lot cheaper. It's more
therapeutic and without the side
effects. I did a whole video on that
topic. So, a lot of people ask me, "What
supplements do I recommend?" Now, of
course, I'm not biased of my own
highquality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg
supplements, you'll find more
information. Okay, day four is the day
when this stopped being more of an
internal experience and started becoming
an external one. Because when you look
in the mirror, your face is going to
look different. It's going to look
better. Your skin is going to look
younger. You're going to have a healthy
glow because all the omega-3 fatty
acids, which basically go into the
membranes of all of your cells,
including your skin cells. And not just
the way you look, the way you feel. Your
joints are going to just feel like
they're looser because the inflammation
just went way, way, way down. You
finally turned off the inflammation
that's been stuck there chronically. So,
we're going to actually have more belly
fat loss, less inflammation because
you're in such a therapeutic range and
your skin is going to be much better.
Now, remember when I talked about this
torine, right? Torine spikes something
called GABA. GABA is the calming
neurotransmitter. So, this relates to
stress. You're going to feel calm.
You're going to feel stable. You're
going to be able to tolerate stress.
You're going to sleep better. You're not
going to get that 3:00 in the middle of
the night cortisol spike. You're going
to be sleeping through the entire night.
Also, realize that your microbiome is
also getting the benefits. It's very
therapeutic to put these microbes on a
fast versus feeding them so many meals a
day, they get lazy and they don't do
their job. When you go into fast, your
microbes actually do much better and you
will start to develop more diversity of
your microbiome. So, your gut is going
to be better and of course the brain is
going to get better because they're
connected. Now, the big difference
between a sardine fast and just a water
fast is that with some people that do
prolong fasting, if they're thinner,
sometimes they might lose a little
muscle, but with this fast, you're not
going to lose muscle because you're
basically putting now 69 grams of
protein in your body every single day.
All right, day five. On day five, you're
probably not going to want to stop
because of all of the compounded
effects. You have more weight loss. You
got a happy brain. Your mood is good.
You're not hungry. You're not craving
anything. Your skin's looking good. You
literally consumed 5,000% of your B12.
You have this massive shift of omega-3
over the omega6 fatty acid ratio by
consuming literally 13,000 milligrams of
omega-3 fatty acids. So, we have our
thyroid working better, flexible joints,
hardcore deep sleep, where you wake up
feeling awake and bright. But out of all
of this, the real big benefit is you're
in control of your own body. You're in
control of your health. You're able to
stick with it. That's a huge win. It's
like you're exercising your willpower,
which is like a muscle. And each day you
do it, it becomes stronger and stronger.
So, you're basically putting yourself
back in the driver's seat of your own
health by doing this. The ability to say
no to junk food is huge. Okay? And a lot
of people are controlled by the body
causing these cravings and impulses to
eat these bad foods. But that's going to
quickly go away after you do this. So
now you have your body in alignment with
your mind so you can actually be
successful at this. Like I said before,
make sure you do the electrolytes each
day. I would probably recommend a B
complex. B1 especially is only stored
for 4 days. If you have a subclinical
deficiency, you know, we don't want you
to run out. Same thing goes with
potassium and magnesium. Make sure you
take your vitamins while you're doing
this. Now, anytime you do a prolonged
fast, it's always important to come off
the eating plan slowly, but you're not
necessarily doing a water fast. You're
doing a sardine fast. So, you probably
don't have to put a lot of attention on
transitioning off of this too slowly,
but I would still recommend that you do
it and that you gradually start adding
food back into the diet. And for that
information, you should watch this video
right here where I talk about prolong
fasting. Check it out.
