Dr. Burke here again. Today we're going
to talk about the number one worst
weight loss advice in the world, which
ironically just happens to be the number
one advice given by mainstream
conventional dieticians, medical
professionals. Now, the big question is,
who am I to give you advice? I have over
8700
success stories. Now, I know some people
are going to say, well, that's not real
science. It's not a study. It's just
anecdotal, but these are not fake.
They're real before and afters. You can
also look at my Google reviews. I have
over 5,000 of them with an average of
4.9 stars out of five. And if you read
those, you'll see a lot of them are
related to weight loss and other health
things. And those are not fake. They're
real. Also, I've been in practice for 30
years, and I've worked one-on-one with
over 40,000 people. That being said, I
do have some experience in this area.
All I want you to do is listen to this
next part and look at it from a
viewpoint of common sense. Here's the
worst advice. Lower your calories.
Portion control. And here's the big
problem. When you do that, especially
repetitively, you're going to be hungry.
You're going to be craving. I do know
thousands of people that tried that in
their late 20s, in their early 30s. And
what happened is their body keeps
adapting to these lower calories and
they start developing a slower
metabolism to the point when they're 45
or 50. Trying to lose weight is next to
impossible. So the body is dynamic. When
you lower your calories, the body
adjusts to it and it slows down. But it
doesn't actually really slow down. It
becomes more efficient.
Not necessarily in a good way, in a bad
way. And I'm going to explain that. But
there's two types of lowc calorie diets
I need to differentiate. You have the
lowc calorie diet where someone's also
doing low carbs and then you have this
one low calorie high carb dieting. When
you do it, you end up raising insulin.
Okay? Because of the high carbs. What is
insulin? Insulin is the hormone that
changes where the fuel is used from. So
now the question is where does the fuel
come from? If you can't get fuel from
your own fat, where is it coming from?
Well, it's coming from the diet. It's
coming from sugar. This is why it's
really difficult to go from one meal to
the next without being really, really
hungry. One of the solutions that they
will tell you to do is to do six small
meals a day to spread it out so that way
you're constantly being satisfied. Okay.
The problem with that is every time you
eat, you're just regardless of what you
eat, if even if it's not carbohydrates,
you are increasing insulin. And then
when you can't sustain that and you fall
off the wagon, they blame you for having
low willpower. And the truth is, it
doesn't have anything to do with your
willpower. It has everything to do with
the advice. It's just bad, bad advice.
So then they'll tell you, why don't you
just load up with fiber or drink more
water so you feel fuller? or they might
just tell you to chew gum or getting you
on ompic. So, here's the big problem
with Ozmpic. Right now, there's a $2
billion lawsuit because of the side
effect from irreversible eye damage. You
can get permanent blindness from taking
Oze. Well, I'm going to give you a much
better solution. So, just hang in there.
But I just wanted to really fully help
you understand why this is the worst
advice. Another way to understand this
is let's say you have a hybrid car. It
runs on electricity from a battery and
it also runs on gas, right? Which is
very similar to our bodies. We have two
different fuels we can use. We can use
fat or we can use glucose or sugar. But
in a hybrid car, you also have the
ability to click in what's called eco
mode. So now the efficiency of your car
is better because you're not fully
extracting all the energy from all the
different things. Maybe your lights go
dimmer. The fans that you can adjust are
set on low mode. So overall, your car is
not necessarily efficient. It's just
using less energy. Well, that's exactly
what happens when you go on a low
calorie, high carb diet. You no longer
can tap into the fat reserve, your own
fat. The stored fat sits there. Where's
the energy coming from? The glucose or
sugar that you eat. This is why you
basically need to eat like every hour
and a half to keep up your energy. How
could it actually be where you have
someone that is overweight, has a lot of
this, but they're tired? Fat is
potential energy. How could you be tired
if you have so much potential energy?
Because it's potential. It's not actual.
In order to release it, this hormone
right here needs to go down. which means
your carbohydrates need to be lowered to
be able to tap into it in the body. When
someone goes on this diet and starts to
develop this what's called slow
metabolism, which really is just your
body just adjusting what gets energy and
what doesn't because you can't use your
fat. So, with this diet, you have a
brain crash. Plus, now the heart can't
really get its full energy. So, the
blood pressure is going to start going
up. the thyroid is going to make
adjustments. So, this is why your feet
might get cold because we're shutting
down the different systems to adjust for
the lack of fuel. This is at the core of
a lot of chronic issues with the liver,
with your nervous system being stuck in
flight or fight mode, your immune system
is not working that well. This is not
sustainable. And this is why it's the
worst advice because you're not going to
be able to achieve your goals if you're
hungry and craving carbohydrates and
have brain fog and high blood pressure
and all the other side effects that come
from this right here. Now, I'm going to
give you 13 tips of what I consider is
good advice. Number one, do not use
preworkout sugary drinks or those
protein bars that they give you. Why?
Because here you are you're expending
all this energy doing this workout and
you don't want to raise insulin to
nullify the effects of the fat burning.
You want to keep insulin really, really
low. So, I highly recommend you don't
consume hardly anything during the
workout. Okay? Maybe you do this, right?
You wake up in the morning, you just
fasted all night long, you skip
breakfast, and you work out in the
morning. That would be awesome. you
would get way better results than if you
just worked out and ate or ate and
worked out. Number two, you want to keep
your carbs less than 10 to 20 grams per
day. I know with keto it's under 50
grams, but just to really see the
results, I recommend doing an extra low
carbohydrate diet, especially if you're
dealing with metabolic issues,
especially if you're dealing with weight
loss. You want to keep these carbs way
down. And some people do the carnivore
diet, which is zero carbs. They're going
to get there faster if they do that. And
that's an option if you really want to
see faster results because metabolic
disease, especially with weight loss, is
really dependent on your carbohydrates.
Okay? I think a much better strategy is
to do intermittent fasting
instead of lowering your calories. And I
will explain that as we get to that.
Number three, no bright lights at night.
Our bodies were never designed to live
underneath artificial lights like we
live right now in modern times. What you
want to do to get the best sleep
possible is 90 minutes before you go to
bed, you start dimming the lights, maybe
having dark rooms. I would recommend if
you can get it incandescent lighting or
some type of lighting where you don't
get this really strong blue light, okay?
Because blue light activates cortisol
and you don't want the stress hormone
cortisol right before bed. We want to
send the message time to go to bed.
Increase melatonin. And you can do that
with infrared. Sitting front the
fireplace reading a book before bed. Oh
my gosh, you're going to get so much
infrared. Infrared is one of the best
things as a therapy for your cells. It
helps the mitochondria. It increases
melatonin. It'll help you drift off into
a wonderful sleep. And then number four,
in the morning when you wake up, if you
could get out in the sun for 20 minutes,
it's going to start waking you up so you
can activate cortisol properly in the
first part of the day. So then you can
use up that cortisol and then you don't
need to use cortisol at night because
that's not going to help you sleep.
Bright blue light in the morning from
the sun or the sunset, right? That's
where you're getting a lot of infrared.
Number five, no late night snacks. This
is a very bad habit. When you go on a
low carb diet, your hunger will go away.
And the reason why people snack at night
is just out of habit, maybe stress. And
I've been so guilty of this because I've
snacked for years on like salty chips
and things like that. So, I have
personal experience. This is a really
bad habit. It's definitely going to
create increased insulin before you go
to bed. And this is not a good idea. Do
you really want to just get in the
groove of eating the right things so the
hunger goes away? Do intermittent
fasting where you're only having like
maybe two meals or even one meal a day.
You are finally tapping into your own
fat fuel. And that makes things so
sustainable and so easy because when
you're not eating, you are actually
eating your own fat and that's a
superior fuel. I think it's a mental
thing where people don't realize that
they are eating when they're not eating
and they're like, "Oh my gosh, I should
be eating something." If you're not
hungry, don't eat. Number six right
here, never buy junk food at the grocery
store. If you do, then it's in your
pantry. It's in your refrigerator. And
now you have to say no every late night
or every day when you go through stress
or you're hungry or out of habit. It's
right there sitting in front of your
face. It's a constant battle. The other
thing is when you go to the grocery
store, never go there hungry. Eat before
you go. I mean, how many times have we
went to the grocery store and not only
bought something that we shouldn't be
buying, but buy in bulk. Don't just go
there randomly and like, "Okay, let's
just see what's there." Number seven,
social situations, parties, events,
birthdays. You talk about going off the
program, you got to be very cautious
because this is where it breaks down for
a lot of people because as soon as your
friends and family start doing it, you
kind of cave and go right into it
because it's a social thing and
everyone's kind of going off the
program. I would advise going into these
events with caution and just be very
aware that that's going to happen so you
have attention on it so it's not a
mindless thing and also eat before you
go there so at the very least you're not
hungry and you can just socialize
without having to go off and eat a lot
of carbs. Number eight is walking after
a meal. Boy, you can just burn off any
extra sugar. It's really really healthy.
Definitely walk every single day because
you have to somehow do something to
extract stress from your body and
walking hands down is the absolute best
thing. Now going to a gym and exercising
will do it as well. But if you go for
somewhat of a a good long halfhour walk
that seems to be a low stress activity,
being in a different environment,
looking at things, being in nature, and
I know the days that I don't go for a
walk, I don't sleep as well. Number nine
here, don't eat unless you're hungry.
When you go low carb, your hunger goes
down because insulin goes down and now
your body can tap into your own fat
reserves. Now, you're not just dependent
on these dietary calories. You're eating
your own fat between the meals. It's a
superior, healthy type of fuel that's
cleaner than carbs, and your brain's
going to like it. How do you know that
it's all working? Well, you now have the
ability to go from one meal to the next
for a longer period of time without
being hungry. Number 10, animal protein.
Super important. You're going to feel
much better. Your blood sugars are going
to be much better. Our bodies as a
priority need protein above carbs and
above fats. So, protein is the most
important macronutrient for repair of
tissues because it's not just about your
muscles. You have hormones that are made
out of protein. You have all the
enzymes. Most of your biochemistry is
protein. And it wasn't until I started
doing that until I started to really
turn my health around. There's some
groups that are telling us to eat less
and less animal protein and more plant
protein. And I don't agree with that.
And I'll have you even test it on
yourself. You will feel way better if
you do animal protein, but not like a
tremendous amount right before bed, but
a moderate amount to satisfy you. Number
11, apple cider vinegar. One tablespoon
or teaspoon in a glass of water. Drink
it with a straw so it doesn't get on
your teeth before each meal can actually
really help your digestion and also help
your blood sugar. Number 12, the diet
that you're on should not keep you
bloated. I used to be in a state of
constant bloat and pain and I always had
a full sensation underneath my right rib
cage. I didn't know that was my
gallbladder and my bile ducts. And it
wasn't until I changed my diet that
things started clearing up. But for some
people, they can't digest even a lot of
fiber, if any fiber. So, this is why
they should do the carnivore or maybe
some fermented vegetables like
sauerkraut or if it's fine, just have a
moderate amount of vegetables. And
that's kind of what I do and it seems to
work. All right. Number 13, periodic
prolonged fasting. There's more benefits
from that than anything else you could
possibly do. And I've done a lot of
videos on that. In fact, if you have not
seen this video right here on fasting,
you need to watch it right now. It's
probably one of my most important ones.
