I'm going to show you how to make a
do-it-yourself face mask for 20 cents
that will work better than any cream out
there. It's inexpensive, super
anti-aging. It's going to tighten your
skin, nourish your skin. If you have any
darker scars or darker blemishes, it'll
lighten those up. It's going to also
help if you have any acne or a little
red dots. It's going to make your skin
look very youthful and healthy. And at
the end of this video, you're going to
add one more thing which will cost you
nothing extra to take your skin to the
next level. And this video is very
short, so you're going to want to watch
the whole thing. What are we going to
use as a face mask? The answer is the
clear part of the egg. You're simply
going to take the white of the egg, put
in a bowl, do a little whisking, and
then you're going to apply a very thin
layer to your skin on your face. Wait 15
to 20 minutes until it dries. It's going
to tighten everything up. It's going to
make your skin look and feel really
youthful. That's pretty simple, right?
Well, now we're going to add one more
thing to take it to the next level.
Let's see if you can guess what this is.
This extra thing is super high in
something that a lot of people are
deficient in. Vitamin A. The more you're
deficient in vitamin A, the rougher your
skin is going to be. Is loaded with
vitamin A and vitamin D, E, K, B
vitamins, and choline, which are all
wonderful for your skin. If you guessed
egg yolk, that answer is correct. I
mean, you're already adding the egg
white. Why not just throw in the yolk?
Because the white handles the tightening
factor on the skin and the wrinkles, but
the yolk actually gives nutrition into
the skin directly, especially with the
vitamin A and these other nutrients.
Then you're going to rinse off the
entire egg with warm water and gently
dry it with a towel. Do this two times a
week. Adding the egg yolk actually adds
a healing factor and a regenerative
factor. You may want to add a teaspoon
of yogurt to this mix just to add some
additional things that will help with
your microbiome on the skin. Just make
sure that the yogurt is not sweetened.
You want organic plain yogurt. This is a
very, very inexpensive but awesome thing
you can do to help with anti-aging on
your skin. Doing this once or twice a
week. I would also recommend eating more
eggs in your diet. I personally eat four
eggs every single day, okay, for one of
my meals. If you're a female, maybe you
have three or two, but I know other
females that have five eggs every single
day. Consuming eggs are like a
superfood. It's the highest quality
protein that you can eat. If you're
going to fry the egg, uh fry it in olive
oil or butter or even coconut oil. Do
not use regular corn oil or other seed
oils. This way, we can attack the skin
from two ways. from the outside in and
then from the inside out. Now that you
know how to use this face mask on your
skin, now let's go a little deeper. I
want to show you how to heal your skin
from the inside out. And to take your
skin from the next level, to heal it
from the inside out, watch this video
right now.
This one. Right there. Click it.
