What happens to your body when you quit
coffee for about 30 days? You know, most
people think that coffee actually gives
them energy. It doesn't. The caffeine in
coffee is not stimulating your body.
I'll show you how it works. In your
brain, you have something called
adenosine. Maybe you might have heard
about this before from another compound
called ATP, which stands for adenosine
triphosphate.
And that really is the energy currency
of the body. And so we're constantly
making this all day long. And then we
have this little byproduct called
adenosine. And so as it builds up, it
gives the brain signals like, okay, you
used up your energy. It's time to wind
down, get tired, and go to sleep. And so
adenosine has a lot to do with the sleep
mechanism and even increasing melatonin.
The caffeine in coffee has a very
similar chemistry to this molecule right
here. So, it can fit into that receptor
in your brain and actually inhibit the
signals for sleep. It's not really
giving you any energy, it's not
stimulating you. The problem is when you
start drinking coffee over and over and
over, then it takes more and more
caffeine to create the same effect. Like
in college, I started off with a little
bit of coffee and then a little bit more
and a little bit more to the point where
I had to drink massive amounts of Cuban
coffee to stay awake, which then burnt
out my adrenals cuz it was doing
everything very artificially and I had
no clue at the time. And so when someone
comes off coffee, there's going to be a
withdrawal period of time. And I'm going
to go through what happens throughout
the month if you were to get off coffee.
Day one and day two, if you just stop
drinking coffee right now, within about
16 hours, you might notice you get a
headache. And that is because we're
getting a decrease in this thing called
dopamine. And so without that
stimulation, dopamine goes down and your
head starts hurting. Day three to day
five, you're still going to feel a
little irritable, but your craving is
going to be just a little bit less
because the dopamine is starting to
adapt. However, you may crave other
things like sugar or fatty foods or
something like that. Remember, dopamine
is kind of like a pleasure hormone and
it makes you feel good. So, without it,
you're going to feel kind of dull. And
this is why dopamine is behind a lot of
addictions. And things with caffeine
also are highly addictive. In the next
phase right here, between day six and
seven, your body is starting to get used
to this. And you're going to find your
sleep is going to do a lot better
because now you have a little more
adenosine to trigger this process right
here. And also, as a side note, caffeine
really inhibits the REM part of the
sleep. So, your REM sleep is going to be
a little bit better at this point. And
also, you might find that your cortisol
levels are a little bit lower. So,
you're just going to have a little bit
better quality sleep at this point. I
want to do a short FAQ on my organic
black seed oil, which has been used for
thousands of years across many different
civilizations in their food and
medicine. from its antioxidant
properties to helping to support normal
cell function and very unique different
phytonutrients that can address many
different conditions. This is Turkish
origin non-GMO vegan coldressed 100%
pure. Check it out and please let us
know of your successes. All right, from
day 8 to 10 now is where you're going to
notice your mood is going to start to be
a lot better. So, you're going to find
that if you were before kind of on a
emotional roller coaster, that's going
to kind of even out because you're going
to have less crashes because this
receptor is starting to be more
receptive and more sensitive. And so,
that means the dopamine is going to
start leveling off, too. At day 11
through 14, you're going to notice your
cognitive function doing much better.
Now, here's the thing. Caffeine doesn't
really increase cognitive function. It
affects cognitive function in a negative
way, but it really only makes you alert.
Because sometimes when people drink
coffee, they they think, "Wow, I have
better memory. I'm more alert. I have
more focus." No, the caffeine is just
making you more alert, but it's not
really increasing your memory. It's not
increasing your focus and it's not
increasing your concentration. But
because you're alert, you might feel
like you have better cognitive function,
but you don't. And even drinking coffee
for a long period of time starts to
decrease the cognitive function. But
you're going to find that it's going to
start to improve like midmon. Right
around here, day 15 to 21 is where some
really interesting things happen.
Dopamine at this point is going to be
back to almost normal as far as the
sensitivity of the receptor. So this
means that you're no longer going to
have this need to drink coffee. That
addiction is pretty much gone at this
point. And then at the last stage
between day 22 and and 30 is when you're
going to really notice the big benefits.
You're going to have way more energy.
Why? Because you're going to have more
availability for this to actually go
into this and you're going to generate
more energy from the sleep. So you have
to realize how much caffeine affects
your sleep indirectly affecting your
energy. I mean, as soon as caffeine goes
into your body, it takes between 4 to 12
hours before it breaks down. So, it
could still be in your body when you're
sleeping, and this happens to a lot of
people, especially those people that are
really sensitive to it. If you take a
look at the coffee plant or a tea plant
that naturally has caffeine, sometimes
people want to know like, what is the
purpose of caffeine in a plant? Well,
actually, it's a chemical pesticide.
Yes, it paralyzes insects, but in
humans, it's not going to do that. It's
going to trigger stress in a certain
adaptive way. It's called a hormetic
effect, which basically is a little bit
of stress to cause your body to adapt to
that, but it's going to have this
different effect on humans, okay? It's
just going to block this receptor and
then it's going to wake you up more. If
you're drinking coffee because you're
tired, there are so many things you can
do to get actual energy. And I will put
a link down below of a video on that.
And it's not just food. Talking about
just going out in the sun can give you a
lot of energy. Exercise, movement can
give you a lot of energy. Having the
right nutrients, electrolytes can give
you more energy, especially potassium
and magnesium. Taking adaptogens like
ashwagandha or certain mushrooms like
lion's mane, super powerful, really good
inputs, and they're not artificial, so
they don't have the side effects. So, if
you're thinking about coming off coffee,
there's a couple things I would
recommend. Replacing the coffee with
green tea, which has caffeine, but it's
a little less. There's a lot of great
things in green tea. So, just make that
first step, okay? It's really easy and
you get some caffeine, but it's not
going to be in very large quantities.
Then, you'd want to gradually shift to
herbal teas that are naturally
decaffeinated because a lot of times in
the morning, people just like to drink
something hot and if you just completely
cut that out, it might be more
difficult. So just adding this herbal
tea without caffeine would be step two
and it'll give you some type of
substitution. Now I highly also
recommend doing some things to actually
create real energy. So maybe in the
morning you take a little sea salt in
some water or magnesium. You can get it
in a powder or electrolytes with high
amounts of potassium. All of these
things should give you a lot of energy
like real energy. But I would also
recommend vitamin B1 because out of all
the vitamins, I'm not talking about
minerals, vitamins, B1 is one of the
most important for helping you make
energy. B1 is kind of like the spark
plug that allows you just to make more
energy. A really good adaptogen that I
like is ashwagandha.
That's a great thing for coming off
caffeine because it helps make this
adaptation smoother. Lemon balm tea is
another awesome thing to add in the
morning. But a lot of people are so
addicted to the caffeine and coffee that
they never have a chance to see what it
feels like to be without the coffee. It
does take a transition. I'm not going to
lie to you. It's not easy, but you'll
never know unless you do it. I have a
free download that I want to give to
you. This free download is my daily
routine in a checklist. This is a
routine that I use every day to feel
like I'm 18 years old even though I'm 60
years old. and I want to give it to you
for free. And so there's a little link
down below. Click it and definitely
download that. The question is how to
really increase real energy, not
artificially, but for real. And for that
information, you should watch this video
right here, right now.
