90% of all chronic disease stems from
this one lie which is taught all over
the world in universities to medical
doctors, dieticians, nutritionists,
personal trainers. Ready for this?
Glucose is the body's preferred energy
source. That's right, folks. Sugar, it
does the body good. And cut. That was
it. If glucose was so essential and so
good, why does your body do everything
in its capacity to remove the glucose
from your blood as fast as possible?
From an evolutionary standpoint, we
would never have survived if we depended
on glucose. Is that true, Mr. Caveman?
Sir,
an average thin person has about a
100,000 calories of fat on their body.
When you consume a lot of sugar, our
body takes it out of the blood real
fast, and it's not going to burn it all
up. What happens to all this excess
sugar when your body removes it from the
blood? Does it just evaporate? Do you
pee it out? No, it gets converted to
fat. It is true that some of our body
does require glucose but it's a very
small percentage and that can be made by
our own body very easily. Why does your
body do everything in its capacity to
remove the glucose from your blood as
fast as possible? Here we are told that
we need to consume 50 to 60% of all of
our calories being carbohydrates which
turns into glucose. When you get your
blood sugar tested and it comes out to
be 80, which is normal, guess how much
sugar that is in your blood? That's only
a teaspoon. But think about how much
sugar a person actually consumes on a
daily basis. You're talking about a
massive amount of sugar. What is all
that doing in your blood? Well, your
body is working like crazy to remove it.
Think about the pancreas. What it has to
do? It has to just literally pump out
this sugar. Truth is that sugar was
never supposed to be the primary fuel.
It's an emergency fuel. If our bodies
were designed to live on sugar, then why
do we only store 1,700 calories of
sugar? That's about the number of
calories you consume in one day. The
single biggest root cause of 90% of
chronic disease is high glucose. It's
the blood sugar spikes. It acts like
shredded glass on the inside of the
arteries, creating all sorts of
inflammation. Anything over 4 g of
sugar, that's one teaspoon of sugar.
That's like 1/5 of a piece of bread,
starts to create a problem in the
arteries where your body has to start
removing the excess. But just think
about the average person, how much sugar
they put into their bloodstream. Insulin
has to be jacked up and produced to
remove it. What happens internally is
you have this high level of insulin. It
just keeps removing the sugar over and
over and over to the point where the
body has to then compensate by producing
something called insulin resistance. It
slows down the sugar that goes inside
the cells to prevent the cells from
having glucose toxicity. Insulin
resistance is your body saying to you,
"I've had enough. Stop giving me sugar."
Here are some common symptoms. Frequent
urination at night, brain fog, loss of
memory, belly fat, visual problems, mood
issues, anxiety, depression, the
inability to go from one meal to the
next without the needing of a snack,
excessive hunger, cravings for carbs,
heart palpitations, fluid issues in your
ankles or your feet, sleep apnea. Those
are just some of the initial symptoms.
If we give it 15 years, then you get
diabetes. Give it 25 years, we create
this caramelization of your brain that's
called dementia, type 3 diabetes,
chronic spiking of blood sugar causes
cataracts, glaucoma, macular
degeneration. Out of all the things that
damages the small little arteries to
your eyes, your kidney, the nervous
system, and especially the inside of the
arteries, it's glucose. Why are people
worried about consuming glucose? because
of this one simple lie that we're told
everywhere that glucose is the preferred
energy source. But we don't do that,
right? But of course in the food
pyramid, you'll see 65% of the calories
should be carbohydrate. Did you realize
if you start reducing your glucose and
go on a low carb diet and keep your
carbohydrates below 30 grams a day, in
one study there was 90% success of
coming off insulin in 10 weeks on being
on a low carb diet. Out of all the
things you can do for improving your
health, low carb diet is at the top of
the list. This lie of glucose being the
preferred fuel was created by the food
industry. They invaded certain industry.
They have bought off scientists. They
have shift the blame on the saturated
fat being the problem. And all because
you can make the most profit on refined
carbohydrates. Through subsidies, you
can buy one metric ton of corn for
$195. How many boxes of corn flakes can
you make with one metric ton of corn? If
you haven't tried the ketogenic diet,
try it. It will greatly help you because
once you start, you're going to quickly
find out that it's not glucose, it's
ketones that your body will love the
most, especially for your brain. To
learn more about that, watch this video
right
