Today we're going to talk about the 13
foods you should never buy organic.
They're just not worth it. You're going
to spend between 50 and 80% more on
organic foods when you really don't need
to. Then I'm going to get into some
really key foods that you should always
get organic simply because they have the
most concentrated pesticides. Let's just
start with the definition. Organic. What
does that actually mean? It means foods
that don't have synthetic chemical
input. When you're talking about animal
foods, it means the feed that they feed
the animals don't have synthetic
chemicals given to them. And with
animals, part of the definition is you
can't use antibiotics. And one quick
thing about chemicals. We're talking
about pesticides, insecticides,
herbicides, fungicides, and those
chemicals build up in the body and they
can create problems. Let me also cover
three other definitions. food made with
organic ingredients. What does that
mean? It means that at least 70% of that
product has to be organic. Then you have
just the word organic and that means at
least 95% of those ingredients need to
be organic. And then finally we have
100% organic which means 100% of those
ingredients have to be organic. So it is
a little confusing. I also want to
mention uh something called hydroponic
where you're growing vegetables or salad
in a soilless liquid with some minerals
in it. That's how they can grow certain
vegetables and salads through a
hydroponic unit. And if I'm not
mistaken, they also have the
certification of organic, which I don't
really like because you're growing
vegetables in water with some minerals
in it and it's not complete. It's not
like soil where you have the microbes.
So, when you see the word hydroponic and
it's grown organically, that doesn't
really mean anything to me. And then the
last point, I want to talk about this
right here. Sometimes you have organic
junk food. These are organic Pop-Tarts.
These are conventional Pop-Tarts. Okay?
They have the same amount of sugar and
starch, but they're organic. So, when
you actually consume the organic
version, it's not going to make you any
healthier. Okay? They both have the same
amount of sugar, which is a massive
amount. So when you start getting into
organic junk food, it really becomes a
situation where it's just a marketing
thing. And so there's a perception of,
wow, organic, it must be better when in
fact it has so much massive sugar. Uh
you're not going to actually improve
your health by eating organic junk food.
So let's first go into the list of the
13 foods that I would not get organic.
Number one, sea salt. I know it's wild.
Sea salt is a mineral, okay? it's not
harvested with pesticides, insecticides,
because pests don't eat sea salt. Okay?
So, when you see that, that's just
totally a marketing issue. I would
recommend getting certain types of sea
salt from good sources. Pink Himalayan
sea salt, Celtic sea salt, Redmond sea
salt, Baja Gold sea salt, but I would
not bother getting organic sea salt.
Okay. Number two, wild caught salmon.
Yes, they actually have organic wild
caught salmon. First of all, how you
going to control what that wild fish is
eating in the ocean. They're not in a
farmed area. They're wild. So again,
this is another marketing hype thing to
make you think it's somewhat healthier
and you might be spending more on it,
but anything wild caught any fish, don't
worry about having the word organic.
Number three, avocados. Avocados are
sprayed if it's conventional, but the
shell is very, very hard. There's a very
strong barrier. Those pesticides are not
going to get through that shell. So,
here you are spending a lot more money
between 50 and 80% more when you really
don't need to. So, there's going to be
very minimal uh pesticides and avocados.
I wouldn't worry about it. Okay. Number
four, baking soda. This is sodium
bicarbonate. It's an alkaline mineral
and a lot of times you'll see organic uh
baking soda which is just another
marketing ploy. This baking soda is not
going to be exposed to pesticides,
insecticides, herbicides, fungicide.
It's coming from the earth. So, you
don't need to get it organic. Now,
sometimes people have a confusion of
baking soda with baking powder, which
sometimes could have aluminum. Um, well,
we're not talking about baking powder.
We're talking about baking soda. and you
want to get food grade and you'll be
fine. Okay, you don't need the word
organic. I'm not kidding. Number five,
sometimes you'll see organic mineral
water. I mean, does anyone really
believe that that actually is a thing?
You can have organic water. Water is not
treated with pesticides, insecticides,
herbicides, fungicides to somehow
protect it. Now, of course, tap water
has a lot of chemicals in it, but
organic mineral water is just purely a
marketing ploy. So just get some good
mineral water from a good source and
don't worry about having it say organic.
Now number six, walnuts have a very hard
shell. There is no way that any
pesticide, herbicide, fungicide is going
to penetrate that shell. So it's going
to be okay to buy uh conventional
walnuts. It's going to be incredibly
cheap and it's really not necessary to
get the organic. And that also goes for
peacons. They have hard shells. Brazil
nuts have hard shells. And by the way,
Brazil nuts are probably the best source
of selenium. Macadamia nuts have hard
shells. So I wouldn't worry about
getting organic nuts that have hard
shells. Come to the next one. Coconuts.
A super hard shell. There's no way a
pesticide is going to penetrate that.
Don't worry about getting organic
coconuts. All right. 11. Cabbage.
Believe it or not, cabbage is not a
vegetable that is heavily sprayed, but
it might be sprayed. All you have to do
is take the outer part of that cabbage
away and then you're not going to have
any pesticides. So, that's one thing
that I do. The pesticides aren't going
to like penetrate to the core. You don't
have to worry about that. The same thing
with banana. Now, I don't consume
bananas. Some people do, but the banana
has a peel that is going to prevent
those pesticides from penetrating it.
And then 13, we get game meat. This is
another uh similar thing to wild caught.
If you're eating elk, uh, wild boar or
venison, those animals are out in the
wild, right? They're not controlled in a
small area where you're feeding them.
So, there's no way you can control the
food. And so, when someone says it's
organic, it doesn't mean anything. Now,
let's talk about the foods that you
should always get organic. Let's start
with number one, peanuts. Peanuts have a
very thin shell that is not grown on a
tree. it is in the soil and they put
heavy amounts of sprays and fungicides
to counteract the mold that grows on
these peanuts. And because that peanut
shell is so thin, it's going to be like
a sponge for pesticides. So, this is why
if you're going to eat peanuts, I would
highly recommend that you get organic
peanuts. Next one, growing strawberries.
If you're doing strawberries, I would
not do conventional. There's no shell.
the chemicals go right in. And so again,
it's like a little sponge. Coffee is one
of the products that is heavily sprayed
with a lot of chemicals. And coffee is
grown around the world and sometimes you
don't even know where it comes from.
It's grown in the tropics and so there's
more chance for mold and fungus. So
they're going to put a lot of stuff on
it. If you're going to consume coffee,
make sure it's organic. Now let's just
go right down to tea. Tea is also
heavily sprayed, but because tea is like
a leaf, you're going to get even more
chemicals than coffee. And so, I would
highly recommend if you're going to do
tea, make sure that's also organic. Now,
let's get to chocolate. Here's another
one where they spray a lot of chemicals.
Chocolate is harvested in tropical areas
where there's higher chance of uh mold
and fungus, and so they do use
chemicals. So, if you're going to do
chocolate, do organic. Cotton is another
massive commercial crop where they
heavily spray this cotton. And the thing
is that you have cotton tampons which
actually go inside your body that you
can be exposed to these chemicals that
then those residues can be absorbed by
your body. Then you also have cotton
clothing and sheets. So that's just
another thing to put on your radar.
There could be some residues, especially
the tampons and also uh cotton products
for small babies. I would make sure it's
organic. Spinach is another heavily
sprayed crop. Okay, so this is the one I
would do organically. I personally don't
do a lot of spinach because it's also
high in oxalates which can trigger
kidney stones. I would do more arugula
or just romaine lettuce. Apples are
heavily sprayed. If you're going to do
apples, I would highly recommend do
organic. I think if you actually peeled
the apples, you probably could take off
uh a good amount of those pesticides.
But apparently the peel is definitely
different than a shell from a nut. So
you're not going to get the same
protection. Grapes are another one.
They're heavily sprayed. I would do
organic if you're going to do grapes.
Cherries are one that I would highly
recommend doing organic as well because
they heavily spray cherries. And then
wheat, oats, lentils, and pulses
need to be organic. And I'm going to
tell you why. Because even if you see
non-GMO wheat, that means it's not
genetically modified. But it doesn't
mean they're not spraying an herbicide
called glyphosate, which is Roundup
Ready on it, because that's what they do
as a drying agent. So, in other words,
some of these uh chemicals are not used
to kill pests and weeds. They're used to
dry out this product, especially wheat,
oats, barley, buckwheat, and even
lentils and pulses. So if you were going
to eat wheat, oats, lentil, and pulses,
make sure that's organic, not just
non-GMO. And so when they say organic,
that means it's not genetically
modified. But when they say it's not
genetically modified, that doesn't mean
that they don't spray it with some
herbicides. So there's a big difference
between the two. Now that you know more
about organic, the next most important
thing to know is what about the
nutrients of the food? What to eat to
get the most nutrients? And for that
information, you need to watch this
video right here. Right there. Go ahead
and click it right now. Check it out.
