This is my number one best weight loss
tip of the entire year. And some of you
might say this is just too simple. So,
I'm going to give it to you in a couple
different ways. And then I'm going to
just explain why this is so important.
All right, here we go. Only eat when you
are hungry. And let me give you to it
another way so you really get this.
Don't eat until you're hungry. Do you
realize how many people eat not because
they're hungry? They're sad or maybe
they're tired and they want to get more
energy. Many people eat for emotional
reasons. And this really gets them into
trouble. They're not listening to what
their body is telling them. I know
there's a lot of pleasure with eating
foods, but there's actually more
pleasure waiting till you're hungry and
then satisfying that hunger with a good
meal versus just eating food when you're
not hungry. And on top of that, even
when we're full, we keep eating. It's
like, how much food can I stuff down the
pie hole? What we've been doing is
training our bodies to associate food
with stress relief, food with happiness,
food with a lot of pleasure to the point
where we're constantly bloated. People
wonder why we're on ant acids, pills for
bloating. There's just no more space in
our digestive system. Also, think about
what this does to your microbes. It's
overwhelming the microbes. They have to
work twice as hard. Same with your liver
and your pancreas and your gallbladder
and your stomach. They have to work
overtime. So, a lot of people are in a
situation where their food is
controlling them. My whole goal has been
to get people more in control over their
body and food especially. What is the
big problem of eating when we're not
hungry? The big thing is you're just
raising insulin. Insulin is a very
important hormone to understand. It's
the hormone that causes fat storage.
It's a hormone that also removes sugar
from your blood. And the problem with
jacking up insulin so many times is you
start to develop a protective mechanism
called insulin resistance. And now
insulin doesn't work like it used to.
This is why 80% of the population, maybe
more, has insulin resistance that rarely
do the doctors ever test for. And of
course, this leads to more hunger
because eating increases hunger because
of the spike of insulin. The excess food
has to be converted into fat around your
midsection and your liver. And then when
that's filled up, it goes throughout the
organs called visceral fat. And you can
tell if someone has that just by looking
down to see if you can see your shoes.
And then that turns into diabetes and
high blood pressure. And as a side note,
the worst thing to say is, "What is my
body in the mood for tonight?" It's like
asking a hungry 2-year-old, "What do you
want to eat?" And you have them in the
grocery store, right? They're going to
pick the junkiest sugar-filled food that
they can find. The body is very
rudimentary and it doesn't necessarily
differentiate healthy food from
unhealthy food. You're going to have to
do that. When the body is out of balance
and the blood sugars are low, the body's
not going to demand some healthy food.
By only eating when you're hungry, let
your body tell you how long to fast.
Because I don't think a lot of people
appreciate what happens when you're
fasting. You are literally burning your
own fat. You're living off your own
fuel. So you are eating when you are not
eating, but you're eating your own fat.
A lot of other positive things are
happening. Your brain cells are growing
more. Your mood will be elevated. Your
cognitive function will go up. Your
inflammation goes down. The other really
cool thing about this is that you are
going to develop a lot more
self-control.
It's called willpower. How do you get
willpower? It's like a muscle. You have
to practice it. Avoid food until you're
hungry. Let's do the flip side of this.
When you eat food, let's say you ate an
unhealthy meal. Food companies have
created something called the bliss
point. What's a bliss point? Your peak
joy, your peak happiness. This is what
junk food is designed to do. And the
food companies have spent billions to
achieve this perfect ratios of sugar,
salt, and fat to create this maximum
dopamine rush in your brain, which is
like pure pleasure. Even the flavor
chemicals have all sorts of other things
as well to do things to trick your mind
because this is where it's happening.
It's not happening in your mouth. It's
happening in your brain. This is only
half the story. The other thing they do
is they spend millions and millions of
dollars on how to create this perfect
mouth feel. The texture in your mouth,
that's huge. The sugar increases
sweetness and stimulates dopamine. The
salt gives more flavor enhancement. The
starches, and I'm talking about modified
food starch, modified cornstarch,
maltodextrin, that's only there to give
the mouth feel. And this is why I
created this app right here, which I
will put a link down below, which allows
you to scan, you know, food like this to
be able to quickly identify the three
ingredients that are in 90% of all junk
food. Sugar, starches, and seed oils.
Those three ingredients make up the
majority of junk food. The app is cool
because it allows you to quickly scan
and identify how much sugar and hidden
sugar and seed oil is in a food. There's
one thing that is not in these junk
foods, okay? They don't have protein.
Now, what happens when you don't put
protein and you give all these other
ingredients? It's going to cause you to
keep wanting to eat something because
there's a phenomena of protein being the
most satisfying thing you can eat.
There's no protein in there. you'll
never be satisfied. In fact, an insect,
an animal, and even a human will keep
eating until they satisfy their protein
requirements. The other thing that's
missing in here is the nutrients. If you
take a food and it's empty with
nutrients, you're also never going to
satisfy someone. If you just eat when
you're hungry and then the foods that
you eat are nutrientdense, a high
quality protein will be the most
important thing to focus on to satisfy
you to also help give your body what it
really needs, which is nutrients and
protein. The two things that are missing
from this right here, the food companies
came up with this slogan, everything in
moderation. No, because a little bit of
this is going to cause you to be hungry
an hour and a half later. Another one
they came up with is there is no bad
food. That's another lie. There are
foods that are really bad. Let me just
mention hunger for a second because we
really have to be in tune with our
stomach and the rest of the body through
the day. That's called being in the
present. Being sad, having anxiety,
being bored is not being hungry. That's
completely different. Hunger is kind of
a a hollowing feeling in your digestive
system in your stomach or your abdomen.
Maybe you even have some type of hunger
pains or even feel lightheaded. I don't
want you to get to that point. I
wouldn't recommend waiting till your
body is irritable before you eat because
your blood sugars crashed or you have
some type of mental change. I don't
recommend you wait till that happens. I
also don't recommend waiting until your
energy completely crashes. We're not
trying to get you to the point where
you're starving. You just want to wait
until you hit the point where you
actually experience the sensation of
hunger. Okay? And I think most people
know what that means. And then you're
going to eat. And then you're gonna
actually stop when you're full and not
keep going until you're stuffed. But to
do that, you're gonna have to really be
in the present and be in tune with your
body. Of course, sometimes you're going
to have to eat before you go somewhere.
The real problem is the mindless eating,
snacking between meals. A lot of people
just skip their breakfast and go right
to lunch and just do two meals. I think
that's perfect. Sometimes I like to
rotate it and have a breakfast and a
lunch and then not have any dinner. And
even right now, it's 2:00 in the
afternoon. I have not eaten anything
today and I'm not even hungry. I'll
probably get hungry around four or five
and I'll have my one meal a day. I
usually do that in the winter and then
the rest of the year I might do two
meals a day depending on my activity
level because I don't really need as
many calories because it's freaking cold
outside and I'm not doing as much
physical activity to burn up those
calories. Couple tips that you want to
add to this. Stay really busy through
the day. Make sure your environment
supports you so you're not tempted so
much. Realize when you're not eating,
you're actually eating your own fat. So,
you are getting fuel. Basically, I'm
trying to change the reason why you eat
because far too many people eat out of
boredom, stress, fatigue, and some other
emotional reason. Putting you in control
of your own food is going to be huge.
It's going to increase your willpower.
It's going to increase your ability to
stick to something, which is called
self-control. Go ahead and try this and
then comment down below how it worked
for you.
