The real reason why you have gallstones.
Did you realize that every single year
700,000 people have their gallbladder
removed? That is insane. We treat the
gallbladder as an extra organ that we
don't need. But at the end of this
video, you're going to have a much
greater appreciation for your
gallbladder, what it does, and what you
need to do to salvage it. And
unfortunately, a lot of people that get
the surgery have similar or the same
symptoms as before the surgery, and
sometimes even worse. And this video is
not about getting you not to get the
surgery. It's just giving you all the
facts of what the gallbladder is, what
causes a gall stone, and how to prevent
them. When most people think gallstones,
they think the person is eating a lot of
greasy foods, too much fat, and that fat
is triggering a gallstone. That's what
they think. High cholesterol equals
gallstones. That's another thing that
people talk about. But I bet you never
heard this. Low-fat diets are one of the
single biggest triggers of gallstones.
The gallbladder is a little sack. It
hangs down from the liver. Your liver
makes something called bile. It trickles
through these little tubes called bile
ducts and it goes into the gallbladder
and the gallbladder actually stores the
bile. It concentrates the bile and it
regulates how much bile is extracted
from the gallbladder into the small
intestine. And so it has a purpose. It's
not an extra organ at all. It's super
important in helping you break down
fats. Why do we need to break down fats?
Well, number one, to extract the fat
soluble nutrients like vitamin A,
vitamin D, vitamin E, vitamin K. Without
bile, we can't extract those key
nutrients from our food. Also, what
about omega-3 fatty acids? That's really
important. Without bile, we can't
extract that. So, what the gallbladder
does is it concentrates the bile to make
it a lot stronger. So, that way when
it's contracted, you have just the right
amount of bile to break down the fat at
a certain point. So, then the pancreas
can release its enzymes to take it to
the next level. So the pancreatic
enzymes and the bile work together to
make these little fat particles small
enough to get absorbed in the small
intestine. And some common myths that
people have, they think the gallbladder
makes cholesterol. No, it's made by your
liver and it drains down into the
gallbladder because the gallbladder is
just a little sack. And also this bile
that's made by the liver, guess where it
comes from? It's made from cholesterol.
And what a gall stone really is, it's a
combination of too much cholesterol and
not enough bile salts. That's what it
is. So it's a super concentrated
cholesterol stone. Why? Because there's
not enough bile. So there's an imbalance
with the cholesterol and the bile. But
even before you get a gall stone,
there's something that has to occur
first, and that is bile sludge. That
kind of plugs up in these little ducts
in these tubes, and it backs up pressure
into your liver, and then it can cause
pain on your right shoulder through here
that can radiate back through here, up
through the neck, right through here.
They think it's a problem with the right
shoulder. So, they get that evaluated
and they get that treated. But really,
it's being referred down here by this
sludge that's in these little ducts. And
sometimes, even an MRI, it won't pick it
up because it hasn't formed into a stone
yet. And so, what is the elephant in the
room? The elephant in the room is that
the bile salts are missing. You're not
producing enough bile for the amount of
cholesterol that's going on right here.
And then what happens when you remove
the gallbladder? Now, we lost the
storage of bile. So we don't get the
concentration anymore. So then the bile
has a weaker effect on the fat that's
coming in from the diet and also there's
not a regulation anymore. And then the
other complication is there's too much
bile flowing through here and so the
person gets diarrhea. So too much bile
is diarrhea and not enough bile is
constipation. So a lot of people ask me
what supplements do I recommend? Now, of
course, I'm not biased of my own
high-quality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg
supplements, you'll find more
information. But the big confusion that
people have is they think gallstones are
created by too much dietary fat. That is
not true. You get more gallstones when
you're on a low-fat diet. Why is that?
because fat is one of the things that
triggers the production of bile coming
from the liver and also the contraction
of that bile into the small intestine.
So without that fat, you don't have that
trigger and so now everything kind of
backs up. So it's not the dietary fat
that is the problem. So what is the real
villain to this? Well, right here, sugar
or hidden sugars is starch and too much
insulin. Okay, high carb diets. Why?
Because when you're on a high carb diet,
you're going to make a lot more
cholesterol and you're also going to
inhibit the production of bile, like I
just mentioned right here, going right
into the sludge into a stone. This is
why pre-diabetics and even diabetics
have a much higher risk of getting
gallstones than people that are not
diabetics. It's the sugar and the
insulin that really puts you at risk.
And one of the remedies that I recommend
if someone has sludge and they have
right shoulder pain is to actually take
as a supplement some bile salts. One
form that's really effective is called
tutka. It is a synthetic bile but it
seems to work really good to allow the
sludge to go through these ducts through
here and get rid of a lot of the
fullness underneath the right rib cage
and the discomfort that people have in
this side right here. And then also with
the foods, I would recommend just taking
some bile salts right after you eat, not
before, because bile salts are alkaline.
So if you're taking it before, it could
potentially neutralize the stomach acid
because one of the things that also
triggers this bile salt to be created
and released is acid in your stomach. So
those people that don't have enough acid
in the stomach can also be at risk for
gallstones as well because you don't
have that trigger. The point is that if
you understand what causes this, which
is actually a lack of bile, part of the
solution can be to just take the bile to
start to undo the sludge or this
gallstone that you have and make it
easier for things to flow, not as the
ultimate solution, but as a coping
mechanism as you fix the diet, as in
lowering your sugar and starches and
going on a low carb diet. And some
people will ask, is it possible to take
enough purified bio salts to dissolve a
stone? And that really depends on how
big that stone is. But even in the
medical community, bio salts are used as
a treatment for gallstones. And the
question is, why don't they recommend it
more? I don't know. Doctors are not
necessarily recommending things that are
not prescribed as much anymore, even
though I think there are prescription
bile salts, but you can get them over
the counter as a supplement. Now I also
want to talk about this next thing
estrogen as in birth control pills,
estrogen therapy and even during
pregnancy the risk of gallstones goes
up. Why? Because excess estrogen can
increase more cholesterol and it can
also slow down the gallbladder
contraction. So therefore we're going to
get more of the sludge and more
concentrated cholesterol. So now you
know another root cause of gallstones.
it could be too much estrogen. So, you
have to really identify what's causing
your gallstones and you can just look at
these two possibilities and see what
makes more sense. Now, for me, I used to
have a lot of gallbladder problems in
college. And so, because it was all
clogged up when I consumed fat, I had
this contraction, but it was all blocked
through here, not with a gall stone, but
with sludge. And that put a lot of
pressure underneath my rib cage when I
ate fatty foods. But the real problem
wasn't the fat. It was all the sugar and
the starch that I was consuming. And the
other thing is that when you're
consuming a lot of refined sugars and
carbohydrates,
you're going to develop a fatty liver
eventually. And that's going to reduce
your ability to make bile. And that can
also be another way that you can develop
gallstones. Now remember when I talked
about your bile salts actually come from
the raw material called cholesterol.
Well, you need vitamin C to make that
conversion. So if you are low in vitamin
C, that could be potentially another
reason why you might be more prone to
getting gallstones. So you need vitamin
C. Also choline, which is part of the B
vitamin family, helps dissolve
gallstones. And if you're deficient in
choline, that can also contribute to
gallstones. In fact, choline is a good
remedy to take if you have the sludge or
the gallstones. And genetically, it is
common to have a problem with choline. I
have the problem. I need more choline to
keep my gallbladder in shape. But the
other thing about choline is choline
greatly helps prevent a fatty liver. So,
it's really a great nutrient for
anything related to liver and preventing
gallstones. And guess where you get
choline? Beef liver and egg yolks.
That's right, egg yolks. And then of
course, magnesium helps the valves. And
if you're deficient in magnesium, these
little valves don't work. And that can
create a backup of bile into the liver
and then refer the pain on the right
side. So magnesium is also essential for
the normal contraction because magnesium
is all about the relaxation of smooth
muscle. And also just FYI, coffee is
beneficial. It's a good thing in
relationship to helping your liver make
more bile and helping this whole thing
work. I also want to mention
hypothyroidism.
If you have a slow thyroid, your ability
to produce bile and have this thing all
work where the bile is being released by
the gallbladder is going to be sluggish
and you're not going to be able to have
this system work as well. Now that you
know the real reason for the gallstones,
there is an amazing
non-surgical
technique that you can learn to quickly
get rid of any residual referred pain
from not just a stone, but this sludge
right here. And I created a video on
this topic right here. Check it out.
