Depression has absolutely nothing to do
with your brain and it has everything to
do with your gut. So many people have
been operating off of this idea
depression is a chemical imbalance that
you need to fix with SSRI selective
serotonin re-uptake inhibitor. Well,
this chemical imbalance theory has never
been proven. In fact, in some studies,
it shows that people that are depressed
have normal serotonin or even higher
amounts of serotonin. In your nervous
system, you have all these different
hormonal like communications. One of
them is serotonin. And serotonin does
have an effect over your mood just like
dopamine has an effect of motivating
you. But what an SSRI does is it blocks
the uptake of serotonin. Let's say for
example, we have a marriage, right?
Okay, we have a husband and a wife and
they're communicating and the husband
sends a communication over to the wife,
but she's wearing earplugs. Okay, that's
the SSRI effect, right? You wear
earplugs and so then the husband starts
shouting. Is that going to fix a
marriage? No. Dr. Peter Goch wrote
several books on this topic and he
basically said SSRI are basically
placeos. Hey, well, you know what? At
least they're getting some benefit,
right? Yeah. But what about the side
effects? Okay? Because in his book, he
talks about the massive serious side
effects of SSRIs. Sexual dysfunction, no
orgasm, decreased libido, you don't
experience emotion anymore. Worsening of
the depression. Let's just compare that
with something like St. John's wart. St.
John's wart doesn't just deal with
serotonin. It deals with dopamine. It's
an anti-inflammatory. It even reduces
cortisol. And what does the medical
profession say about St. John's wart?
They say, "Well, you have to be careful
not to take it because if you're taking
that and a psych drug, you might
increase serotonin." St. John's wart has
very little side effects and it actually
works better than the placebo because
it's a natural thing and it does a lot
of different things. And there's some
interesting things about Prozac. Prozac
is an SSRI. When Prozac came on the
market in 1988, couple years later in
1990, there was a outbreak of some
serious side effects where they had a
bad batch of tryptophan. So the FDA
decided to ban tryptophan for quite some
time. They lifted the band of tryptophan
right after the patents for Prozac ran
out. Let's shift gears to our gut. Your
gut makes serotonin. It also makes
something called oxytocin, a very
powerful hormone that can help people
with depression, stress. Typically,
people think about oxytocin as the
hormone for bonding between a mother and
a baby or um when a mother is
breastfeeding. Oxytocin is also there to
increase contractions during a
pregnancy. So, it has multiple
functions, but just realize that your
gut makes oxytocin. And there is a
highway between your gut and your brain.
It's called the vagus nerve. The
communication from your gut to your
brain is very very heavy. It's like 80%.
And then we have 20% of information
going from your brain down to the gut.
So your brain is monitoring what's going
on in your gut and then the rest of your
your like your heart and other organs as
well. That's how your brain monitors the
rest of your body through the vagus
nerve. And so if your gut microbes are
not doing well, this alone can create
depression. In fact, when other studies
when you take depressed people and you
look at their gut microbiome, there are
some serious missing microbes, this area
of gut microbiome is completely
underappreciated in the area of mental
health. Also, if you have gut
inflammation, you're not going to feel
good moodwise. This is why what you eat
is so vitally important with how you
feel up here. And this is all very
interesting, but when you also think
about antibiotics, one of the big side
effects of taking antibiotics is
depression because you're now erasing
the good bacteria that controls your
mood chemicals. It wipes them out
overnight and then you think, "Oh yeah,
the microbes will start grow back." No,
a lot of times they don't grow back. So
now you have this imbalance and you
wonder why you're depressed. In
practice, I would ask people, when did
you start getting depressed? Did you
take an antibiotic? Right before that,
many times they would say, "Yes, how did
you know?" The gut microbiome is a
chemical factory, good chemicals that
will send chemicals up through this
nerve, goes up to your brain, and
infects your mood. If you have not seen
my other video, I'm going to put a link
down below, but I want to tell you a
little bit about this amazing microbe.
You can buy elutery as a microbe in a
supplement, but many times it's not in
the potency that you really need to
create the effect. And Dr. William Davis
told me about an amazing way to
cultivate this microbe using uh ultra
pasteurized half and half and you
basically put it in a yogurt maker and
for 36 hours and then you just take a
half a cup a day. I've been doing this
for months and I want to tell you
something. It's a game changer. The
first thing that my wife actually
noticed is she kept saying like, "What?
Why are you hugging me five times a day?
What's gotten into you?" I said, "I
don't know. I just I've been consuming
this yogurt. It just makes me very
social. I it's really wild. She goes,
"Well, just keep keep taking that
yogurt." I noticed my sleep's better. My
muscle is better because it increases
stem cell for your muscles. It reduces
stress. And if you watch my previous
videos on this and you read the
comments, it'll blow your mind how many
people are just getting amazing results
with this probiotic. It acts as a
natural antibiotic without any side
effects that I could perceive. Another
interesting point about El Ruter, like
where does it come from? Well, it's
actually in mother's breast milk.
Breastfeeding is is not as common as it
was years ago. And antibiotics are
extremely common. And so these gut
microbes are something that we need to
put more attention on. So I highly
recommend that you cultivate this elder.
I will put some information down below
of exactly how to do it. And then you're
going to realize that your depression
really had nothing to do with your brain
and had everything to do with your gut.
Thanks for watching.
