Dr. Berg: Hey guys, Dr. Berg here.
In this video, we're going to talk about the relationship between saturated fats, eating
saturated fats and diabetes or prediabetes.
I really wanted to create a video on this one point because there's so much confusion
and conflicting data out there, okay?
In this video, I brought in a special guest.
This guy is almost an equivalent as far as knowledge in the area of health.
He's a really good looking guy as well.
Let's bring him on.
This guy is going to help just explain insulin and the pre-diabetic state called insulin
resistance.
Would you mind doing that for us?
Dr. Berg: Hey guys, how are you?
Let me explain what insulin is, okay?
Insulin is a hormone that regulates blood sugars.
It lowers blood sugars, and the presence of insulin, you're not going to burn fat, and
it causes fat to be stored, but insulin resistance is something a little different, because it
basically, as insulin connects into the cell, the cell doesn't absorb it anymore.
It blocks it.
On the other side of the cell, you have low insulin or low effects of insulin.
Here, you have the cells that are starving of food and nutrition and energy and glucose,
yet you have all this sugar piling up in the blood.
It's going to send signals back around to jack up the insulin.
People with insulin resistance have five to seven times more insulin than normal people,
and so many people have insulin resistance, they don't even know they have it.
It takes 10 years to develop.
It causes a stubborn belly fat.
It creates problems with a fatty liver, and then having fatty liver actually causes insulin
resistance.
It's one big ugly cycle.
Some of the symptoms are tired after you eat lunch or dinner, not satisfied after you eat,
craving for sweets is a big one, basically, high blood pressure, fluid retention.
These are all symptoms of insulin resistance, okay?
Does that help?
That was amazing.
That was a very good explanation of insulin resistance.
Thank you.
There are gurus out there that are just pushing this avoidance of saturated fat.
I want to show you one right here, Joslin Diabetes Center.
Now, if you look at one section of their website, they have the five myths, and this is just
totally bogus information.
I'm going to have my buddy just explain and share these myths with you.
Would you just go ahead and show them these myths?
Sure, no problem.
We have the five common myths for people with diabetes debunked, okay?
This is actually ridiculous.
People with diabetes have to eat different foods from the rest of the family, right?
People with diabetes can eat the same foods as the rest of the family.
That's what they're recommending.
That is crazy.
What if they're eating sugar?
You're going to eat the same thing?
Bad, bad advice.
Here's another myth.
People with diabetes should never give in to food cravings.
Okay, they're calling that a myth, all right?
It says right here, "If you crave, if a craving does occur, let yourself have a small taste
of whatever it is you want.
In doing so, you'll enjoy the flavor and avoid eating later on."
Bad advice.
This is as bad as eating everything in moderation, because as soon as you start eating something,
you are going to want it more and craving it, because it's going to spike the sugar
and drop it.
The point is that the definition of fat is something to protect you against the starvation
of sugar.
This doesn't starve your sugar.
It gives you a little bit through the day, just enough to block and any chance of losing
weight.
To be able to lose weight, you have to literally drop sugars way, way, way, way down there,
especially if you have a slow metabolism, because just the nature, you're not going
to make the switch to fat burning if you don't do that, so bad advice.
Number three, people with diabetes shouldn't eat too many starchy foods, even if they contain
fiber because starch raises your blood glucose and makes you gain weight.
They're calling that a myth.
Starchy foods such as bread, pasta, rice, cereal provide carbohydrate, the body's energy
source.
That's not true.
The body can run on ketones, which is a different fuel source from fat.
Fruit, milk, yogurt in desserts contain carbohydrates as well.
Everyone needs some carbohydrates in their diet.
No, they don't.
Diabetics have too much sugar in their blood, so they don't need to add more sugar in their
diet to stimulate the insulin.
Weight gain occurs when you take in more calories than you burn off.
This is one of the oldest, crappiest lies.
They keep pushing this.
This is not true.
It's been proven to be an utter failure.
Number four, people with diabetes do not have to worry about eating fats because it doesn't
have much effect on the blood glucose.
They're calling that a myth.
Fat found in margarine, oil, salad dressings have a little intermediate effect in blood
glucose levels.
However, eating a fatty meal can slow down digestion and make it harder for your insulin
to work, causing a possible high glucose levels hours after your meal.
Again, that's not the reason.
The reason is fats are neutral.
Fats are neutral and he's going to show you that in the next part.
You don't have to worry about eating fat.
Fat doesn't increase glucose, sugar does.
If you combine them, that's really deadly.
Yeah, that's all I'm saying.
Now I'm going to zip it dot com over to you.
Dr. Berg: Well, thank you, appreciate that.
There are gurus out there that will tell you that sugar doesn't cause insulin resistance
or even diabetes, so check out this clip right here.
Speaker 3: It's a myth that sugar causes diabetes.
Many people think that the consumption of high carbohydrate foods or foods high in sugar
are the cause of diabetes.
It's easy to think that high blood sugar is caused by sugar.
Dr. Berg: This is so not true.
Sugar does cause diabetes.
Check out this clip.
Speaker 4: What causes insulin resistance?
It's intramyocellular lipid.
It's fat that's inside the muscle fibers that interferes with insulin signaling such that
your body has to keep pumping insulin to try to force it into your muscles, which use about
85% of your blood sugars.
Your blood sugars rise because they can't enter into the cells, and not just any fat,
but particularly, saturated fat is toxic.
It's called lipotoxicity.
Dr. Berg: Interesting, eh?
Well, check out one more clip.
Speaker 5: All fats don't affect muscles the same.
The type of fat, saturated versus unsaturated, is critical.
Saturated fats like palmitate, found mostly in meat, dairy, eggs, cause insulin resistance,
but oleate, found mostly in nuts, olives, avocados, may actually improve insulin sensitivity.
Dr. Berg: You see, this is why it's so frustrating, because you're getting conflicting information.
One doctor says, "Eat fat."
The other doctor said, "Avoid fat."
It's massive confusion.
This is why I drink on the weekends.
No, I don't drink on the weekends.
It's going to increase my sugar, basically.
Here's the point.
The point is you need to be able to understand what the actual research really says.
For that, I'm going to bring on my buddy over here that's going to go over the research
just so you can see yourself what the truth is, over to you.
Dr. Berg: I'll help you out.
Okay, here are some research articles that show the relationship of a low-carbohydrate
diet compared to a low-fat diet.
This is from the New England Journal of Medicine.
This is what it says right here.
It says, "Severely obese subjects with a high prevalence of diabetes or the metabolic syndrome
lost more weight during six months on a carbohydrate-restricted diet than on a calorie or fat-restricted diet
with a relative improvement in insulin sensitivity."
In this study, they're showing that having some fat and low-carbs is a good thing for
your blood sugars, okay?
That's what it's saying, but of course, people ignore that.
Okay, here's another one, "Beyond weight loss: a review of the therapeutic uses of very-low-carbohydrate
(ketogenic) diet."
See, ketogenic is more of a diet where you're involving a lot more fat to the diet, but
you have to keep the sugars really low.
It says right here, "Very-low-carbohydrate diets or ketogenic diets have been in use
since the 1920s.
Recent work over the last decade has provided evidence of the therapeutic potential of ketogenic
diets in many conditions, such as diabetes," and even other ones too, polycystic ovary
syndrome, acne, neurological diseases, cancer, respiratory, cardiovascular.
I mean, come on, these are research articles that show that saturated fats are not that
bad, okay?
They're actually therapeutic in nature.
Here's one, the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, "Long-term effects of a very-low-carbohydrate
loss diet compared with an isocaloric low-fat diet."
Yeah, and here's another one, "The effects of a low-carbohydrate versus conventional
weight loss diet in severe obese adults, a one-year follow-up of randomized trial."
It's basically showing us that fat diets are not the culprit, okay?
This is research that just proves that.
What we want to do is we don't want to be afraid of fat, okay?
Over to you my friend.
Dr. Berg: Wow, that's amazing.
Do you realize there were really only seven studies that were done on this topic?
Out of the seven, only one, one study showed a weak relationship, it was called almost
statistically significant.
What does that mean?
Almost is not always.
Almost is sort of but not really.
All six studies show that there was no influence or no effect on your blood sugars by eating
saturated fats, but they ignored those, okay?
Really, these theories are based on one very weak study that they're using as the reason
to get the population off of the fats.
This makes sugar okay to eat.
You keep eating the sugar.
You keep eating sugar, and you never get better, but you still take your medication.
There's something else called the Insulin Index.
There's a certain research that was done to look at the relationship between non-carbohydrate
things that stimulate insulin.
The thing that I want to bring up on the Insulin Index is that fats are low on the list, which
means they're almost neutral.
They don't affect insulin, unless you add a trigger, but if you're just having a pure
fat, they buffer insulin.
If you were to take a low-fat high concentrated whey protein mix, that is a high insulin spike
by the way, and you took an egg which has yolk and egg white, the yolk buffers the egg
white.
It makes it smaller in the reaction to insulin.
Fats, this whole time, had been totally okay to consume, in fact, necessary if you have
a pre-diabetic state.
Why, because it allows you to go longer without eating.
If you're not eating, you drop insulin down, and you can actually really help people lose
weight, help them with their blood sugars so they're not eating six times a day, help
them with the correct action.
Really, here's the thing, the culprit has never been fat.
It's never been the culprit.
I'm talking about healthy fats, and saturated fats I consider healthy if they're grass-fed
and they're not inorganic.
I want to just bring that point out to really teach you that because that is the most important
thing to emphasize, is that avoid the carbohydrates not the fats, okay?
I'll see you in the next video.
