Yesterday I got in a heated argument
with Chachi PT. My wife actually came in
and she's like, "Who are you talking
to?" I was really frustrated because I
wanted to see if Chachchip had at least
basic truthful information in the area
of health. How do they know this
information is more truthful than
something else? It's basically weighted
through medical consensus. There's so
much medical dogma that ends up being
completely false over periods of years.
Today we're going to take a deep dive
and ask CHPT various questions and see
what it says. Before I do that, I want
you to comment down below and tell me
how do you find your health information?
Where do you go to get answers on
health? The first question that I asked
Chach PT is how do I lose weight? And of
course it said this losing weight comes
down to creating a sustainable calorie
deficit. Burning more calories than you
consume. Of course, this dogma has
persisted and it's going on right now.
This is what the medical profession
tells you to do to lose weight. They
give you a tip. A good starting point is
to reduce your intake by 300 to 500
calories per day. Let's just say you did
reduce 500 calories. You're just going
to be so hungry because you're not going
to actually tap into your fat supply.
You're going to be dependent on the
calories from the food coming in because
you're running on carbs. Then I asked
Chachi, "What is the best diet for
health?" Number one, the Mediterranean
diet. Of course, it's lots of
vegetables, fruits, legumes, and whole
grains. Moderate fish and poultry. Of
course, you have to limit the red meat,
sugar, and processed foods. I like how
they put that together. Limit red meat,
sugar, and processed foods. Like, they
lump those three together because
they're all of equal importance to
avoid. Look at this. Optional moderate
red wine. For women, that's one glass
per day. For men, it's two glasses of
alcohol per day. First of all, if you're
recommending a diet good for health and
you're actually recommending alcohol,
explain to me how that's going to make
anyone healthy. The second diet is, of
course, plant-based. Here we got the
same old same old recommendations. Okay.
Flexitarian diet. This is mostly plants
with a moderate amount of protein. Same
thing, lean proteins. And then we have
the DASH diet for blood pressure, more
grains, lots of vegetables, fish, and
lean meat. Same old, same old. But now
we're going to lower your sodium as
well, right? Sodium has been found not
to cause high blood pressure unless
someone's super sensitive and low in
potassium. There's just as many if not
more problems with low sodium,
especially if you're going low carb
because when you lower your sodium,
you're going to have weakness in the
muscle and the nervous system. People
actually need at least one teaspoon and
a half per day of sea salt just to get
enough sodium. Diets to avoid long term.
Here we go. Keto and carnivore can show
fast results but hard to sustain, often
lacks fiber, and can affect long-term
heart health. There is absolutely zero
evidence of that data. Again, where CHPT
gets their data is from organizations
like the American Heart Association, the
American Diabetes Association. All of
these organizations are heavily funded
by certain individuals, certain
industries that are going to make them
very biased. I mean, think about keto
and carnivore. What kind of threat that
is to all sorts of money, medications,
junk foods. Basically, they called the
keto and carnivore fad diet. Quick
results, but often result in rebound
weight gain and nutrient deficiencies.
Wait a second. The healthy version of
the ketogenic diet in carnivore are so
nutrientdense. Let's just compare that
with the dietary food guidelines, which
by the way do not even measure up to
give us our basic nutrients unless you
include the three cups of refined grains
from the fortification of the synthetic
vitamins put in there just to make it
have some nutrients. So again, chacha is
just lying through its teeth. General
principles for a healthy diet. Well, you
have the mostly plants, whole grains,
adequate water, enough protein, can be
plant or animal. You see what they just
did? they just kind of uh made those two
equal each other, which is absolutely
not true. If you're trying to get
protein from plant, good luck. You're
going to be deficient. Next question is,
is keto healthy to do? Ketogenic diet
can be healthy for some people
shortterm, but it's not ideal for
everyone or for long-term health in most
cases. But then here we go to the risks
and the drawbacks. Nutrient
deficiencies, fiber. I do a version of
the ketogenic diet where I actually eat
salad. I'm getting fiber and with greens
you can get vitamin C, you can get a lot
of magnesium, potassium difficult to
sustain. Many regain weight after
stopping. Really actually I know a lot
of people who have maintained their
weight for a very long period of time
and it's very sustainable may negatively
affect athletic performance. Uh no, it
actually will help increase athletic
performance. Possible impact on gut
health. Yeah, positive impact on gut
health. Might be beneficial for type 2
diabetes or pre-diabetes. That's a lot
of people, right? And so many people
have blood sugar problems. Why wouldn't
this be a powerful tool? What is the
best way to lower my cholesterol? More
fiber, their version of healthy fats,
but replace saturated fats with
unsaturated fats. In other words, we're
going to recommend the hearthealthy seed
oils instead of the saturated fats.
Again, this is just completely outdated
uh dogma that is yes, it's general
consensus, but it's completely outdated
and false. Limit red meat and full fat
dairy. That would be a mistake. Replace
some animal proteins with plant-based
proteins. Plants don't have complete
proteins. The protein you get from
plants is far inferior than the protein
you get from animal products. Reduce
dietary cholesterol. limit foods such as
egg yolks, shellfish, organ meats. Just
ignore that because cholesterol is
needed to make bile. It's needed to make
vitamin D. It's needed to make all your
cell membranes. It's needed for your
brain. It's needed for your hormones.
Medications if necessary. H. Okay. This
is what the experts say. Statins. All
right. Next question. Are seed oils
really that bad? When cedos aren't that
bad? When used in moderation. When cedos
might be bad. highly refined. Well,
that's the majority of seed oils out
there. Oh, I like this. The verdict.
Should I avoid seed oils? No need to
demonize them completely. The key is
balance and moderation. This is a play
in their playbook.
Everything in moderation. So that way
you can keep eating the junk food. There
is no bad food. It's just about balance
and moderation. Well, when you have a
chronic disease, you cannot just solve
it by balancing your diet. you have to
do something out of balance. And I think
this is how they normalize
carbohydrates. They started to use
arguments that we need uh carbs for our
brain to the point where it's like 65%
of our calories are grains. What is the
best recommendation diet and nutrition
for someone with type 2 diabetes? Why do
they add whole grains and legumes? Think
about what causes insulin to spike. It's
carbs. So what is diabetes? It's a
disease where there's too much blood
sugar. Why would you want to add more
carbs to increase that sugar if type 2
diabetes is too much sugar already? Wow,
look at this. 1/4 of your plate should
be whole grains and starchy vegetables.
Really, sweet potatoes? Why do you even
recommend that for diabetes? This is
ridiculous. Avoid large portions of
carbs. Be mindful. No. No. Don't consume
any carbs or or keep your carbs really
really low. Also, they say focus on
complex carbs. Did you know that
maltodextrin, modified food starch, and
modified cornstarch is classified
chemically as a complex carbohydrate?
Yeah, I know. It's bizarre. Limit sugary
foods and drinks. Wow. If you do consume
fruit juice, make sure it's 100% fruit
juice. Oh my gosh, this is so so
outdated. Oh, this is good. Meal timing.
Spacing meals evenly through the day can
prevent blood sugar spikes. Consider
smaller, more frequent meals. No, no. We
don't want a lot of spikes. The more you
eat anything, the more you spike
insulin. So, this is going to contribute
to diabetes, not inhibit it. With type 2
diabetes, you do not need to balance
your carbohydrates. That's bad advice.
You need to bring your carbs way, way
down to as close to zero as possible. Of
course, I asked the question, what about
red meat? Is it healthy or unhealthy? It
brings up the risks of red meat,
especially processed meat. It's
interesting how they always combine red
meat with processed meat. You know how
many people that go on carnivore that
improve their blood pressure, their
heart function. How many people come off
medications that are related to the
heart when they do all animal products?
It's a lot. Some studies have shown that
higher consumption of red meat and
processed meat might be associated with
higher risk of developing type 2
diabetes. Well, I would love to see
those studies. Well, I've actually
already looked at them and they're
observational studies, which by the way
are only meant to develop theories.
They're not meant to prove something as
it being causitive. So, what does the
research say? Moderation is the key. We
have that word again coming up. For
example, serving red meat a few times a
week, around 3 to 4 ounces per serving.
Really? No. I consume red meat almost
every single day. How much red meat is
healthy? Well, the American Heart
Association, which by the way is a
private corporation funded by big food.
I'm talking about the junk food industry
as well as big farmers. You really think
that the American Heart Association can
be independent and stay independent? No,
they can't. American Heart Association
recommends limiting red meat in no more
than 1 to two servings per week with
each serving being around 3 to 4 ounces.
This is actually valuable information to
find out what they're recommending you
don't do so you can start doing it. I
think that would be the only use. The
link between red meat and cancer has
been a subject of extensive research.
And while red meat does not directly
cause cancer, there's evidence that
excessive consumption of certain types
of red meat, processed meat, may
increase the risk of cancer. It's just
interesting to me how they have to throw
those both into the same category when
the truth is there is no credible
research on red meat. Then I asked Chad
PT from a diet and nutrition
consideration, what would you recommend
for the following conditions? So, I'm
talking about like autoimmune diseases,
fibroids, cancer, gluccom, ulcers,
heartburn, brain fog, peripheral
neuropathy, which is uh lack of uh
sensation or pain in the bottom of your
feet, heart disease, and clogged
arteries. Just to see what they would
recommend, cuz that would tell me a lot
about where the recommendations came
from. Let's start with autoimmune
diseases. And they're recommending, you
know, omega-3 fatty acids, fruits,
vegetables, curcumin, avoid processed
food, gluten, nightshade, vegetables.
That's fine. But none of that is going
to put your autoimmune disease in
remission. To put any autoimmune
condition into remission, you have to do
two things. You have to really raise
your vitamin D levels uh to a
therapeutic dose because vitamin D helps
prevent the immune system from making a
mistake and attacking its own tissues
instead of a microbe or a pathogen. You
need a lot of vitamin D. It's called the
colombra protocol. Instead, they have
other things that are okay, but they're
not significant in putting your
autoimmune disease back in remission.
cancer, they're going to recommend
plant-based vegetables, cruciferous,
healthy fats, etc., etc., depending on
how severe your cancer is. Uh, yes, you
need to clean up the junk food and eat
healthier, but fasting, that's not even
in here, right? Prolong fasting is the
most powerful thing you can do for
cancer, especially stage 4. Let's get to
ulcers. Non acidic foods, bananas,
apples, cooked vegetables, oatmeal,
probiotics, slippery elm bark. Avoid
spicy foods. Again, it's not going to
work. You need zinc carnosine. The
advantage that I've been fortunate to
get is experience working one-on-one
with a lot of people over many, many
years that have been validated by many,
many people. How much ultrarocessed
foods, aka junk foods, can we eat to
still live a healthy life? while eating
ultrarocessed foods occasionally won't
necessarily derail your health. The key
is, can you guess what they're going to
say? Moderation. Limit the ultrarocessed
food calories to less than 20 to 25% of
your total calories. If you're doing
2,000 calories per day, they're telling
us to consume 500 calories of all
ultrarocessed foods every single day.
Well, we have Pop-Tarts. Let's see.
That's 370
calories. So, I can actually take two of
these and probably another one of these.
So, three Pop-Tarts every single day and
still maintain
my healthy lifestyle. Now that you have
that information, I think it's really
important to have the truth about what
to eat to create a healthy body. And for
that information, you should watch this
video right here. Yeah, click this one
right now.
