Heart palpitations. It's not what you
think. If your heart skips or flutters
or pounds suddenly, in most cases, it's
not actually heart damage. It is a
problem in the electrical system. More
specifically, the electrolytes in the
electrical system. Electrolytes are
minerals that allow electricity to
travel through the nervous system. And
so, it's the electrical system where the
problem really is. And unfortunately,
most doctors never even look at the
electrolytes as a part of the problem
related to palpitations. And out of all
those electrolytes, the most likely
problem is a deficiency in magnesium.
Now, I do want to make a disclaimer. If
you have chest pain, fainting, known
heart disease, go get those things
checked, okay? But the majority of
people with palpitations get their EKG
tested and it comes out normal. They get
another test called the echo and that
comes out normal too. And so the doctor
will just say, "Well, it's just stress.
Just give it time. Maybe we'll do some
more testing." But what I want to get
into now is the simple mechanism and
exactly what you can do to get rid of
these palpitations. First question is,
what is a palpitation? If there's a skip
beat or an extra beat, that's called a
palpitation. And you're going to feel
something weird in your chest or you
might feel like you need to take a
breath or maybe even feel a little bit
dizzy. But at the core of this problem,
we really have an unstable
electrical rhythm, which does not mean
your heart is failing or there's any
type of structural problem at all. It
means the nervous system is a bit
irritable because it's not mechanical.
It's chemical. It's very easy to fix.
Now, if you look at these three
electrolytes right here, calcium is
usually the big problem. Okay? Calcium
causes contraction of the heart muscle.
Too much calcium will also cause
twitches, cramps, insomnia, and anxiety.
Too much calcium overstimulates the
nervous system that goes to the heart.
Well, guess what? Magnesium is the
master controller of calcium. So, out of
all the electrolytes, magnesium is the
most important one in nerve stability.
Magnesium is also the solution for
twitches that you might get in your body
or cramps especially in your calves or
your feet especially in the early
morning. Insomnia, magnesium is the best
thing for insomnia as well as reducing
anxiety. Magnesium helps to relax the
muscle. And the big problem with
magnesium is when you get it tested, it
rarely shows a deficiency because most
of the magnesium is not in the blood.
Most of it is deep in the cell, like
99%. So when you test the blood, chances
are it's always going to be normal
despite having a deficiency and then
other things can come in increasing the
demand for magnesium or even causing the
release of too much magnesium to the
urine and trigger a palpitation. We're
going to get into that. One really
common trigger for palpitations
is stress. Okay. Now, there's two things
involved with stress. Adrenaline and
cortisol. Well, it just so happens that
magnesium buffers adrenaline and
cortisol. But if you're slightly
deficient, all it takes is a little
stress to push this over the edge,
create a deficiency, and boom, the
palpitations kick in. So, we have stress
that can increase the demand for more
magnesium. But there's other things as
well. If your sleep is really crappy,
you're going to need more magnesium. If
your blood sugar is not stable, let's
say for example, you're a diabetic or a
pre-diabetic, the demand for magnesium
goes way up. This is why diabetics have
such a difficult problem with magnesium.
And also hormonal shifts, whether
someone's going through menopause or
even having blood sugar issues. Also, as
a side note, if you have heartburn or
acid reflux, what that means is you
don't have enough stomach acid, which
can also be a problem in the absorption
of magnesium. Exercise greatly increases
the demand for magnesium. And this is
why people that sometimes exercise
notice heart starts skipping a beat or
palpitating. And so, why does exercise
create a demand for magnesium? Because
magnesium is involved in making energy,
ATP. And what is exercise? A massive
depleter of ATP. And you're going to
need a lot more of that to be able to
generate energy when you exercise. So if
you notice this connection between
exercise and palpitations, it might not
happen right away. It might happen just
like an hour later, then we know it's a
magnesium deficiency. Another way
someone can become deficient in
magnesium is through magnesium
excretion. And so you're losing
magnesium through the urine excessively.
Caffeine can act as a diuretic and that
can be in coffee and tea. So diuretics
are things that cause you to urinate
more and lose magnesium. Going on a low
carb diet. When you go on a lower carb
diet, you get rid of fluid and you
notice palpitations when you do the low
carb thing or when you fast. Now you
know why because you were already
deficient and that pushed you over the
edge. Heavy sweating, you're going to
lose electrolytes. That could be one
reason why you have these palpitations
combined with the exercise. So we
increase demand,
increase elimination of magnesium and
not a good combination. Also alcohol
will cause more magnesium to be lost to
the body. Now the third thing that can
aggravate palpitations is just not
getting enough magnesium from the diet
or from your water. We used to get our
magnesium from the well or the spring.
Now people consume city water which
doesn't have any significant amount of
electrolytes like magnesium in it. But
also if you're not consuming enough
magnesium foods. So what are those?
Salads, anything green has chlorophyll.
At the heart of chlorophyll, that green
stuff in vegetables, is magnesium.
Chocolate has magnesium. Of course, it
also has sugar, unless you have the
really, really dark chocolate. That's a
very tiny amount of sugar, and that's
one source of magnesium for some people.
So, a lot of people ask me, "What
supplements do I recommend?" Now, of
course, I'm not biased of my own
high-quality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Bberg
supplements, you'll find more
information. Avocados are a good source
of magnesium. Certain nuts have
magnesium. But if you calculate the
foods that you eat, most people are not
consuming enough foods to even get
enough magnesium to run the body. Let
alone create a therapeutic effect to fix
something like palpitations. And also
junk food, ultrarocessed food. When they
process food, they break it down. They
strip it of all the nutrition. Right? So
when you consume junk food, you're
eating empty food that then requires you
to digest it and process it. And because
there's no nutrients in it other than
some of the few synthetic vitamins they
put in it, now your body has to tap into
your reserves of these nutrients. That's
really the purpose of vitamins and
minerals and trace minerals to actually
act or assist in the biochemistry or the
metabolism of digesting and assimilating
food. And so junk food is very depleting
of nutrients, especially magnesium.
Magnesium is on a circadian rhythm as
well. And it's at its lowest point in
the early morning. And if you ever
notice in the early morning, there's
higher incidence of leg cramps. there's
higher incidence of heart attacks. All
of these things at the root cause are
related to a magnesium deficiency. There
are specialized tests that you can do,
but a lot of doctors don't like to do
them because they require a lot of
effort and specialized procedures. The
type of magnesium that is best to take
is a magnesium that is very absorbable,
like 80% of it gets absorbed, that's
magnesium glycinate. It also helps
increase something called GABA in the
brain. It calms you down. It's good for
stress. It's good to reduce cortisol.
So, that combination I think is the
best, especially compared to other forms
of magnesium like magnesium oxide, which
is only 3% absorbed, and you get
diarrhea when you take too much of it.
Now, as far as how much magnesium to
take, the RDAs for magnesium are roughly
about 400 mg per day. You might want to
try that, but if it doesn't go away, you
might want to increase it. But the
problem is you don't want to take all
your magnesium in one sitting because
your body is only going to absorb so
much. So just break it up. Have some in
the morning and then have some at night
and maybe you have just double the RDAs
like 800 milligrams. And that way you
can actually build up your reserves and
also increase your energy because your
energy is dependent on magnesium. You
know, you might say, "Well, I thought
magnesium is just good for sleep. How
can that improve my energy? Is that
going to counter it?" No. It actually
takes energy to sleep well. But
magnesium typically doesn't just boost
your energy, it just supplies the raw
material so your body has the capacity
to make more energy. Now that we talked
about pepitations, I think it's best to
now get into how to prevent more serious
problems with the heart using magnesium.
And all of that is in this video right
here. Check it out. You'll love it.
