three healthy vitamins that actually
worsen nerve pain using vitamin B6 and
B12. But I'm also going to add one
critical piece to this puzzle, B1. And
I'm going to tell you why in a little
bit. But let's first start off with this
vitamin B6. Why do we need B6? Vitamin
B6 is one of those helper vitamins
involved in a lot of chemical reactions,
especially making neurotransmitters.
Those are kind of like chemical
messengers that work within the nervous
system like GABA, serotonin, dopamine.
B6 is really crucial in nerve
transmission, the ability to communicate
through the nervous system. In order for
B6 to work, it has to be converted
through the liver to this active form
called P5P.
So, the wrong type of B6 or the wrong
dosage can create the same damage of
something you're trying to heal. The
biggest reason why B6 is toxic to people
is how it accumulates in the body. If
your liver is sluggish and you can't
detoxify, okay, or you don't have enough
bile, which is the thing that helps you
digest fat, or you're low in
glutathione, which is a very powerful
potent antioxidant. What happens is the
B6 kind of floats around in your blood
and it never gets converted to the
active form. So then you go to the
doctor and you check your B6 levels and
they're like super high or maybe
sometimes are even normal yet you're
very deficient in vitamin B6 because you
didn't have this conversion and it just
backs up into the blood. The un
metabolized B6 is creating the toxic
feeling that you feel which affects the
nervous system. But I just want to also
mention there's a couple other things
that can block this conversion. If you
have inflammation in the body, if you
have blood sugar issues, if you have low
magnesium, it won't make this
conversion. Now, let's talk about B12.
B12 is involved in making the myelin
sheath around the nerves. B12 is also
involved in helping make your DNA. And
unfortunately, most B12 supplements are
in this synthetic form right here called
cyanocobalamine.
Cyanocobalamine contains a cyanide
molecule. Okay? But cyanide in itself
with the amounts that you would get from
taking this is so tiny, your liver can
very easily detoxify it. So it's really
not the cyanide that's creating the
problem. The problem is it's useless
unless it converts to this form right
here, methylcobalamine.
And I'm going to introduce this new
thing to you. It's called methylation.
You need methylation to convert this to
this. And a lot of people have a genetic
issue with methylation. And so this
conversion doesn't really occur. And
even if they don't have a genetic
problem, if they have gut inflammation,
low hydrochloric acid, they don't have
enough microbes, they also will not make
this conversion, thus creating the
numbness, tingling, and burning in your
nervous system. But B1 is really a nerve
vitamin. It has everything to do with
your nervous system, but also your
nerves are going to suffer because B1 is
intimately involved in the mitochondria,
the energy factory in the nervous system
as well as in the myelin sheath, that
little coating around the nerve. So, if
you don't have B1, you're going to have
a hard time making myelin and the nerve
just won't have the energy to work. So,
B1 is really important in giving the
mitochondria energy. And if it doesn't
have enough B1, then a lot of things
back up in the system as far as energy.
You have a lot of byproducts, too. And
one is something called advanced
glycation endroducts. That would be some
like protein that's connected to a sugar
that clogs everything up. And you also
might have a lot of lactic acid buildup
and a lot of other toxic residues.
People that are deficient in B1, a lot
of times they're diabetic because of the
blood sugar issue and what that does to
the metabolism and depleting your B1.
The deficiency of B1 really affects the
longer nerves of the body, especially
the ones that go into your feet and your
toes. That's why you'll see a diabetic
start having peripheral neuropathy. And
what's happening is the nerves are dying
at the end part of the nerves in the
feet. And someone came along a while ago
and realized that B1 is a water soluble
vitamin and so is B6, B12. The problem
is taking a water soluble vitamin and
having it penetrate through this fat
myelin sheath or even like penetrating
into the brain. Water-soluble vitamins
don't penetrate through that. Okay. So,
what they did is they created something
synthetically called benotamine. And
I've been recommending this for many
many years and I've never seen anyone
have any side effect from it. But
benotamine is a synthetic version of B1
but in a fat soluble form. And
benotamine has the ability to penetrate
through the myelin and fix neuropathy.
But regular water soluble B1 does not.
And if you don't already know this, when
you consume a lot of sugar or refined
carbohydrates or starch, your
requirement for B1 goes straight up and
vertical. you need a lot of B1. And so
this is just another plug to avoid those
refined carbs and sugars. Okay. Now,
there's one more thing that people
usually have a question on. It's called
alphalapoic acid because a lot of times
people will take that when they have
peripheral neuropathy.
If you just take this by itself, it
might make you feel a little bit better.
It's a very powerful antioxidant. It
helps to build other antioxidants as
well. But alphalapoic acid also helps
the mitochondria to work. And one of the
really cool things it does is it helps
improve insulin sensitivity. And because
so many people have insulin resistance,
it's one of the key nutrients that works
really well with people with nerve
damage. Now, I just have to mention when
you go to the doctor, right, and you're
checking these vitamin levels and
everything comes back normal or even
sometimes it comes back on the high
side, realize there's a problem with
conversion. Again, it's not what you
take, it's what gets absorbed and
converted and ends up in the cells. So,
to put everything in summary, number
one, use the right form of B6. Don't use
the synthetic version. use the P5P.
And for B12, use the methylcobalamine,
not the cyanocobalamine. Okay? And for
B1, take natural benotamine.
Number two, I wouldn't go over 50
milligrams per day of B6 unless you're
monitoring it closely with someone that
knows what's going on. Now, number three
is very important. Now I did mention
bile just a little bit on bile but bile
is super important in this whole
conversation. Bile is like the dish soap
that breaks down the fat soluble
nutrients and carries out the toxins and
some of these un metabolized vitamins
can be toxins. And also when you take
benotamine guess what this is now fat
soluble. If you don't have enough bile
because there's something going on with
the liver, you're not going to absorb
it. So, a lot of people ask me, "What
supplements do I recommend?" Now, of
course, I'm not biased of my own
highquality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg
supplements, you'll find more
information. Number four, consuming
fermented foods. Sauerkraut, fermented
vegetables, kefir are all very
important, especially since a lot of
these gut microbes actually make B
vitamins and the ones that you really
need. Number five, you want to make sure
that you balance your insulin and it's
not too high. High insulin creates
insulin resistance and that blocks the
absorption of one of the most important
co-actors involved in all of this, which
is magnesium. People that have insulin
issues are nearly always deficient in
magnesium because of that. But not just
blocking magnesium, but also other
vitamins as well. This is why going on
the healthy version of a low carb
ketogenic diet is essential for getting
your nerves working correctly and also
to make sure this methylation thing
works as well. Number six, don't forget
about the alpha lipoic acid. It'll help
reduce inflammation. It enhances the
mitochondrial repair. And realize a lot
of people don't necessarily have a
vitamin deficiency. They have a vitamin
processing problem. A little bit
different. But now you know what that
means because a lot of times it's not
what you're missing, it's what you can't
use. There is another video that is on
benotamine that will give you a lot more
details of the power of what that
vitamin is. And so I put that video up
right here. Check it out.
