Today we're going to talk about the
seven worst foods for joint pain and
arthritis. And then I'm going to go
right into the foods that you should eat
for arthritis and joint pain. And I am
going to touch mostly on osteoarthritis,
but also rheumatoid arthritis and gout.
And I've had so many old injuries in the
past that these old injuries can
definitely haunt someone the older that
they get. So arthritis and inflammation
is a very important thing on my mind.
So, I'm always diving into this topic
and I found something that I want to
share with you that is extremely
interesting. I just have to give you a
couple little basics on some words that
I need to define. The first one is a
condraeite. What is that? It's a cell
that makes up your cartilage. Okay. So,
when we're dealing with joint pain, it's
important to kind of dig into what makes
up a joint and study that. And knowing
this information could potentially
completely resolve your arthritis pain.
What did I find? Well, when I was
studying these condraittes and how
inflammation develops,
there's always this reference to this
term right here. And before I tell you
what the term is, it's something in your
cells as a part of the assembly line to
help make certain things. And this
particular thing in your cells has a job
of folding proteins. It's just like you
would like folding a paper airplane,
right? You have to fold it in a certain
way so it'll work. Same thing with your
cells. Deep inside you have this little
factory that is manipulating different
amino acids to make different proteins
in a certain shape. And that thing is
called and you ready for this?
Endopplasmic reticulum. It's a part of
the factory in your cell that folds
proteins so you can use them. It also
has a function of storing calcium. And
what was interesting to me is that you
have a lot of different things that
could happen in the cell. You have a lot
of different parts. But they kept
bringing up this particular part of that
factory having stress that originates
the cascade of inflammatory events even
before mitochondrial damage. And I found
that very very interesting. All right,
so just hang with me. There's a couple
more pieces of this puzzle, but that's
the first one. The second thing that I
learned was even more mind-blowing
because in this condroite there happens
to be receptors
for bile salts. Now wait a second. Bile
salts that's in your gallbladder. Why do
you have receptors for bile in your
joints? That didn't make sense to me. I
had to kind of go deeply into this for
like an hour or two to really wrap my
wits around it. But in summary, this is
what I found. There's two types of bile.
Okay? You have the bile that your liver
makes that helps you digest fat, but you
also have
another bile called the secondary bile,
not the primary, that your microbes help
you make from your own bile. So
basically, they're not actually making
bile. They're just manipulating yours in
a way that changes them to create other
functions in the body that go way beyond
just digestion, the digestion of fats.
So in other words, there's other
important functions of bile salt and one
function is acting as a potent
anti-inflammatory in your joints. So
apparently some of these bile salts get
into your blood and they go the
different parts of the body like your
joints and help protect the joint and
they help reduce inflammation which is
very very interesting. When I was in
practice, I know when people had their
gallbladders out or they had some
antibiotic, they nearly always got some
type of arthritis or joint pain. So, it
got the wheels spinning on that topic.
But then I remembered
Tutka. What is Tutka? Tutka is a very
specialized bile salt and it's a
supplement that people take. But I had
no idea until I looked it up that one of
the unique things about Tutka is that it
reduces
this ER stress, this endopplasmic
reticulum stress as a very unique
benefit. This bile salt reduces stress
on the endopplasmic reticulum. And so
now it started to make more sense that
basically the bile is not just reducing
inflammation, it's actually helping the
factory that actually is repairing and
maintaining and building your joints
because this is a real key part of of
that process. And so this connection of
the bile is super important in
protecting this part of the cell
machinery and also to keep the
inflammation out of this right here.
Because if something happens with that
bile and you're deficient and you get
more of this uh endopplasmic stress,
then what happens
as a cascade of events? you start
getting uh mitochondrial stress and now
we have a breakdown of this whole
apparatus and also calcium is involved
because apparently this little
endopplasmic reticulum has another
function of storing calcium. So you can
imagine when we're talking about joints
we're also talking about preventing
calcification.
So that's just something new a very
foundational thing. I'm gonna relate
this to the worst foods for arthritis
and then also the best foods so you can
then have enough of these from the diet
and know how to control that and reduce
your arthritis or inflammation your
joints. And maybe you've heard of the
gut brain access. Okay, well there's a
gut joint axis as well and that's where
I got the information from. I will share
that in the link down below if you want
to learn more about it. But apparently
these bile salts are potent
anti-inflammatory. And I'm talking about
the bile salts that come from your own
microbes making them wild. And just
since we're on the topic of bile, I want
to touch just more on this tuta, which
is a different type of bile salt. It's
actually bear bile, and they don't take
it from bears anymore. They make it
synthetically. This bile is very potent
in shutting down inflammatory signaling
molecules in arthritis, which is this
right here. I don't want to give you
more complex words. Just realize that um
Tutka helps shut down inflammation very
potently with all types of arthritis.
Now, let's touch on
another key piece of the puzzle, which
is vitamin K2.
Maybe you've heard of vitamin K1 which
has to do with clotting. And some people
take a medication called warpherin which
blocks vitamin K1 so they don't clot as
much and so they're preventing heart
attacks. So that's vitamin K1. But
vitamin K2 does something slightly
different. It prevents
calcium from building up in the soft
tissues. If you are deficient in vitamin
K2 for some reason, you may get
calcification in the joints or the
arteries possibly or even osteophytes
which are little spurs that can happen
around the joints.
One interesting thing about people that
are on warin, one of the side effects is
not only
the blocking of vitamin K1 but also the
blocking of vitamin K2. it won't work.
And this is why one of the side effects
of warerin is increased calcification of
your soft tissues in the joints and in
the arteries. I mean, it's pretty wild
that you're taking warpherin for the
heart with the side effect of having it
create calcification in the blood
vessels around the heart. Like, that
doesn't make sense to me. But what you
should know is vitamin K2 is in foods
that are higher in fat. So, when we get
to the diet part, I'll explain more on
that. But this is a really key vitamin
to keep the calcium from building up in
the joints and reducing inflammation.
Now, let's talk about RA, rheumatoid
arthritis. This is an autoimmune disease
where your own immune system is
attacking itself. So, we have these
antibodies
that are against our own joints and that
keeps the joint in a constant state of
inflammation. I'm not going to give you
any more new words with the immune
system, but it's going to be an
imbalance with these two little things
right here. And all you need to know is
there is a really important vitamin that
helps to put the fire out and reduce
inflammation and that is vitamin D. But
if you take regular amounts of vitamin
D, it might not create a therapeutic
effect. In fact, it's probably not going
to be. You have to take large amounts to
create this therapeutic effect on the
joints, but really you're creating it on
the immune system because rheumatoid
arthritis is more of an immune problem
than a joint problem because there's a
lot of different autoimmune diseases.
Rheumatoid arthritis is just one of
them, but it's a problem within the
immune system. So, as far as the amount
of vitamin D you would have to take, I
would take at least at the very minimum,
20,000 I use, but probably 30 or 40. I'm
going to put a link down below of maybe
a doctor you want to work with if you
have rheumatoid arthritis to regulate uh
how much vitamin D you need and then do
other tests to make sure you're doing it
correctly. But when you're taking high
doses of vitamin D3, you should also
take magnesium and zinc and vitamin K2
because they all work together. But this
will greatly reduce inflammation in the
joint. Whether you have uh rheumatoid
arthritis or osteoarthritis,
vitamin D is one of the best
anti-inflammatories, especially for in
the knees and your lower back, actually
in any joint. If you're deficient in
vitamin D, your inflammatory signals go
way up. Now, when you have arthritis or
joint pain, there are things that are
triggering it from food, like a food
allergy.
So we will be talking about that. Some
of the most common things in the foods
also there's advanced glyceric
endroducts that comes from having
glucose or sugar with a protein.
Basically when you do high carbs you're
going to get these and that's going to
create this sticky protein that's going
to create inflammation. uh they have
found in the joints
this certain
thing called bofilm and there's microbes
in the bofilm. It's kind of like this uh
slime or this protective glue that has
microbes in these little calcium shells
and so your immune system can't find
these microbes. Well, guess what? They
found that some of those microbes are
related to your your teeth. Yeah. So if
you have an old root canal that's
infected and somehow that infection is
still there in your gums and that sits
in your gum for a period of time and
that can leak into your lymphatic system
into your blood and it can go into the
joints and it can go into the arteries
and it can keep you arthritic. But the
big new thing that I wanted to share
with you today is this microbiome
problem. Wow. The importance of your
microbiome and your joints is way more
significant than actually I thought. So
it's something we're going to cover when
we talk about the food right now. Okay.
So we have the seven foods that you want
to avoid. Now these are not necessarily
just foods. They're ingredients and a
lot of foods. The first one is
emulsifiers. An emulsifier in a food is
something that mixes things up in a way
that is very blended. And so, um, you'll
see these emulsifiers like one of them
is polyorbate 80. Okay? You'll see these
in frozen desserts, creamy dressings,
and what they do is they really mess up
the microbiome.
You remember the microbiome that
actually helps you make those bile salts
that you need for your joints? Well,
there's a high correlation between
eating these foods and consuming this
and having inflammation in the joints.
And I wanted to just point that out and
make you aware of that. Let's to go to
number two. Lowfat soy protein powder.
If you look at some of these protein
bars, sometimes they'll use soy isolate
protein. It's very low fat. It's an
industrial protein. And I do know a lot
of people who use that protein end up
with achy joints, arthritis. Why? Well,
because it interferes with the liver.
When you don't consume animal protein
and you get your protein from things
like soy protein or or plant-based
protein, you're going to get a very low
amount of torine, if any torine. Torine
is needed to make bile. Okay? So, that's
one thing that is missing in a vegan
diet is torine. You don't have the
primary thing that stimulates the
production of bile and the contraction
of the gallbladder. You need fat for
that. So people on a low-fat diet, they
end up with a deficiency of bile, which
can then end up with a problem with
arthritis. Now, there could also be uh
residues of hexane, which is a solvent
in this soy protein. Now, some people
will say, "Oh, it evaporates. It's not
there." But there's no one supervising
or regulating that right now,
unfortunately. But, uh, so it may be
there, it may not be there. We don't
know. And like I said before, we're not
going to get the bio stimulation.
Instead, we're going to get this thing
that's going to create more inflammation
in the area of the liver and the
digestive tract, which is going to
interfere with the microbes. Number
three, refined seed oils. I want to
explain something. When they have done
studies on seed oils, they have actually
said when they replace the saturated fat
with these seed oils, there was an
improvement in cardiovascular
function and insulin sensitivity. And
I'm not denying that. My point is, what
type of oil did they use? Did they use
the typical oil that people get when
they go to a fast food restaurant where
it's heated and reheated and reheated
for days or weeks? Absolutely not. So,
there are seed oils that are coldressed,
very, very minimal refining. And then
you have the typical oil, which is
refined, bleached, deodorized, heated to
570°.
When you heat those oils, you create
byproducts called aldahhides which
create a lot of damage in the joint and
in the arteries and also in your
mitochondria and in the cells that
regulate insulin. So yeah, you can
hypothetically say these oils are fine,
but what about the complete picture?
What about the byproducts that are
created from the heat and the reheating
as well as the aldahhides that are
created once these seed oils are
embedded into your membranes? Some of
these oils, safflower oil, if it's
coldressed or even the sunflower oil has
a much lower omega-6 fatty acid and much
higher monounsaturated fats just like
avocado oil and olive oil. But that's
completely different than what most
people consume or buy at the store. So
this is why number three, refined seed
oils are very inflammatory, especially
for your joints. Okay. Number four,
alcohol, especially beer. So beer will
turn into something called purines,
which then can create problems with gout
and it can create inflammation in the
joint. Beer also has carbohydrates. So,
it's going to create a spike in blood
sugar and create inflammation.
And it's not just the beer that will
create problems with arthritis, the wine
and hard liquor because it messes with
your liver and anything that destroys
the liver will cause arthritis
unfortunately. Number five, casein A1
protein. Okay, A1. A2 is less of a
problem, but the commercial milk that
they sell with A1 is the one that a lot
of people have a problem with. And
especially if it's condensed into
these two things right here, sodium
caseinate and calcium caseinate. These
are like super concentrated casein A1
protein that is going to flare up your
joints and it's in a lot of the bars.
It's a very cheap protein they use that
comes from China. So you have that. You
also have a concentrated casein A1
protein in cheese like the American
cheese. So you want to avoid these
casein uh conventional powders that they
have. They actually put it in infant
formula.
Probably why children develop allergies
to milk, right? Not good. If you're
going to do milk protein, it's the A2.
If you do sheep cheese or goats cheese
or even cow's milk cheese, you can
actually find it A2. It's much much
better. But the conventional milk with
A1 protein is from grain-fed cows, not
grass-fed cows. And if we also compare
milk to cheese, like cheese is going to
be way more concentrated in that
protein. So you'll probably have more
reaction to cheese than you would milk.
All right, number six, modern wheat.
compared to some of the ancient grains.
You know, I do a lot of videos on wheat
and yes, it's a refined wheat product
that will spike your blood sugar because
the carbohydrate in there is a super
high glycemic starch called amalopectin
A, which not only will spike your blood
sugars higher than sugar, it's also
highly inflammatory. That's one thing.
You also have this WGA wheat germ
aglutin. That is something that is
almost as inflammatory as gluten. It's a
type of chemical that attaches to your
gut wall and it can create leaky gut.
And then we have glyphosate. Right now,
most wheat is not GMO, but they still
spray this herbicide
glyphosate as a drying agent. and you're
getting like a lot more of it that way.
And if you're exposed to this, not only
is this going to affect your microbiome,
but it is connected to inflammation. And
then we get gluten. Gluten is another
protein that humans have a difficult
time digesting. The byproducts from
gluten can give a opioid like effect
which kind of numbs the area initially
and then all of a sudden you end up with
pain that's delayed. There's just a lot
of issues with gluten and arthritis and
gluten and inflammation, gluten and
thyroid problems. And of course, we have
high fructose corn syrup. This is not
just sugar. This is an industrial type
of uh synthetic sugar. It's higher in
fructose that has been known to create a
lot of inflammation in your liver and
insulin resistance in your liver which
is going to create inflammation directly
and indirectly. So there's really no
turnoff switch. So people can drink a
lot of it without kind of being
satisfied. So it's it's very very
dangerous. So these are the foods to
avoid. Let's talk about the foods to
eat. Fermented foods. Why? Because when
you eat sauerkraut, kefir, Bulgarian
yogurt, you are going to build up the
microbes that help you make these
secondary bile salts. And these
secondary bile salts are potent
anti-inflammatories
in your joints. Second one is healthy
fats. Olive oil, avocado oil, fish oils,
but also animal fats that are grass-fed
are also very healthy and so is
grass-fed butter and grass-fed cheese.
Number three, anything with high amounts
of vitamin D3. There's salmon, cod
liver, and cod liver oil. But typically,
you want to get as much sun as you can,
but that's not food. So then some people
in the winter take it as a supplement.
But when we're talking about arthritis,
you're going to have to take the
therapeutic dosage of vitamin D at the
very minimum 60, but shoot for 70 or
even 80 or sometimes even a little bit
more depending on what type of condition
you have. If you have also an autoimmune
problem, you need it high because that's
when the magic starts happening with
inflammation. Also, make sure you take
vitamin K2 and magnesium to offset any
problems with that. Of course, omega-3
is going to be in the the fish, cod
liver oil, very important. And then also
the sulfur foods, onions and garlic and
cruciferous vegetables, very high in
sulfur because the joints like sulfur.
And then of course, just make sure you
have enough collagen from bone broth
because part of that joint is collagen.
If you're just eating, you know, regular
meat like hamburger or steak, that has a
small percentage of collagen. If we take
a look at our body and and look at how
much protein we have, and then we look
at how much collagen we have, we need at
least 30% of that food collagen. But
when you look at a steak, it's only like
maybe two or three or four, maybe 5%
collagen because people like tender
steaks, right? They're not consuming
these this grass-fed, grass-finish steak
that's really hard to eat because you're
chewing it all the time, but that's
because of the collagen. You might have
to get your collagen another way. I
already talked about vitamin D, K2,
magnesium. I want to just mention keep
your iron low because too much iron can
create arthritis. Iron is one of those
minerals that it's very hard to get out
of the body once you get it in there. So
like cooking with an iron skillet is not
good. Taking iron supplements is not
good. Especially if you're not
menrating. If you're a man and you have
too much iron, chances are you're going
to have a lot of inflammation. And then
tuckup, I want to just mention that
because that's a really good remedy for
arthritis. And now you know why. It's
something to help that endopplasmic
reticulum stress as well as protecting
the cartilage in the joint. And because
Tucka is such a fascinating compound, if
you really want to understand all the
things it does, you want to see this
video right here. Check it out.
