Today we're going to talk about how big
pharma has erased natural medicine. And
this is a fascinating topic because
everything I'm going to talk about today
is based on this one book right here
that was written in 1926.
This book is called United States
Dispenstory by Wood and Lwal. This is
the 21st version. It has over 2400
pages. This is they'sy's Bible. This was
the most authoritative and comprehensive
reference for American medicine back in
1926.
75% of all the remedies back then were
natural based on herbs, plants, animal
extracts, minerals. Only 25% of medicine
back in 1926 was made from petroleum
synthetic drugs. And I'm going to share
with you 20 of these remedies that are
going to blow you away because these are
things that I've recommended on a
regular basis, but that was actually
mainstream medicine back in 1926. And so
since that time there's been this
gradual transition from natural to
synthetic drugs because in the 22nd
version which is in 1943
that ratio of natural versus synthetic
changed only 50% of all the remedies
were natural and other half was
synthetic. And then we get to 1955
in the 25th edition of this book. And
now we have only 25%
of the solutions being natural and then
the other 75% being synthetic drugs from
petroleum. Now, I'm not going to get
into too much of the motive big pharma
becoming greedy and how the Rockefellers
and the Carnegie family work together to
create this Flexner report which then
infiltrated all the medical schools and
then made this transition to upgrading
medicine to a whole new field which is
pharmarmacology. So, I don't want to get
into that, but I think what I will say
is history tends to repeat itself with
so many different things. Starts off
good and then slowly it becomes
infiltrated by something else. We went
from hundreds of diagnoses to now we
have thousands of diagnoses and
thousands of treatments and all these
different specialties and they're all
siloed, right? You go to a a GI doctor
for your digestive problem and they do a
test and they find you have an ulcer.
They give you a diagnosis. They give you
a treatment. Go to the pharmacy, get
your prescription, and then you're
rechecked over time. By the way, there's
a huge difference between natural
remedies and drugs, obviously, because
drugs really are powerful, but they only
inhibit one thing, like one enzyme,
whereas natural things do a lot more.
They're not as powerful, but they do
multiple things. We have this thing
called the advancement of medicine. And
sometimes people think about this
advancement as more wise, but is it
really more wise? We kind of invalidate
the wisdom of the past and like that's
old stuff. Science is where it's at
right now because now we have more
science. We have more medical
advancements. And all that old stuff is
like folklore, snake oil, quackery. Yet
at the same time, a lot of drugs are
derived or modeled from these natural
remedies. Are we really going in the
direction of more wisdom or are we going
away from more wisdom when you have
these natural remedies that have been
around for hundreds or thousands of
years that have stood the test of time?
I always hear the argument of, well,
there's no research in that natural
remedy. Well, if there's no money in it,
who's going to fund the research? 80% of
all research is from big pharma. They
create something called iotrogenic
diseases, which are basically side
effects from medication or medical
procedures. In some cases, uh there's
something called polyarm pharmacy where
you have especially people in nursing
homes or assisted living, they're on
like 10 or 20 or 30 or 40 different
medications, right? And one of the
biggest problems that I have is the
omission of lifestyle changes. They're
not looking at your food. They're not
looking at your sleep. They're not
looking at your stress level. They're
not looking at your microbiome. They're
not looking at the frequency of eating
and the snacking and all these other
things that are more uh going to affect
the root cause of that problem. Instead,
they look at the later dysfunction that
occurs over time. And so then they treat
that. They might do screenings every
year and then soon as they pick up this
dysfunction and now they start treating
it. So there's not a lot of prevention
in healthcare, unfortunately. Now, full
disclosure, I do sell supplements and so
I've been attacked in the past where
people will say, "Oh yeah, Dr. Berg,
you're just trying to make a lot of
money. You're selling a lot of
supplements and that's why you're doing
this." And my reply is, "Did you realize
most of the supplement industry is
controlled by big pharma? They own
vitamin companies and also big food, the
junk food industry, as well as the
chemical companies. From my viewpoint, I
think the quality is not that great. If
you take a look at the number one
selling supplement in the world, it's
owned by big pharma. It's a one a day.
The first ingredient is calcium
carbonate. That's limestone. And you
have to realize that the first
ingredient is usually the majority of
the product. And even when you pick up
the bottle, it's like heavy because of
the amount of calcium carbonate. And
it's filled with synthetics and fillers
like maltodextrin and food coloring and
flavorings. And so at the very least, I
really give a crap about the ingredients
in the supplements that I have and I
make sure there's no maltodextrin. I
really put a lot of attention in making
sure those ingredients are quality. The
other thing that I hear a lot is
supplements are not regulated by the FDA
like drugs are. Well, that is because
supplements and vitamins are not drugs.
And this is really not a good comparison
because if you're trying to uh equate
drugs with natural things, they're not
at the same category. That's like saying
the farmers market is the same as a
pharmacy. It's not. It's very, very
different. The side effects from drugs
are way, way more than the side effects
from vitamins and minerals and
supplements. All right, so that's my
introduction to this book. Now, let's
talk about the remedies that they used
back in 1926. This is going to blow you
away. Check this out. Cod liver oil was
a common remedy with medical doctors
back then. And they used cod liver oil
to inhibit TB. So if you had a
tuberculosis infection, one of the
things they would use is cod liver oil.
Cod liver oil was also used for
rheumatoid arthritis. And now we know
why. Because of the high levels of
omega-3 fatty acids, specifically EPA,
which is a natural anti-inflammatory.
They also use cod liver oil with calcium
salts to help get rid of tetany, which
is like this little twitch that you
might have in different places in your
body. And they use it for nerve pain,
probably because of the
anti-inflammatory effect. Let's talk
about number two, nutmeg oil. This was
used for certain psychotic problems. It
was actually a narcotic until it was
replaced with actual synthetic
narcotics. Number three, olive oil was
used as a mild laxative for people with
constipation. They also used olive oil
for gall stones. Now, on one hand, that
was pretty smart because when you
consume fat, you're going to create an
increase in bile, and bile is going to
help dissolve a stone. But the only
thing you have to be careful about if
there is already an existing big
[snorts] stone that's obstructing the
passage of bile as it goes through, then
releasing more bile could create a back
pressure. Number four, pine needle oil.
That was used as a way to get rid of
mucus from the lung. They would put a
couple drops in boiling water and then
breathe in the vapors to help with
chronic bronchitis. Number five, castor
oil. I mean this is a remedy that I
recommend on a regular basis. They use
castor oil as a mild laxative because it
increases the pumping action of the
colon that's called paristalsis and they
also use it topically for dermatitis or
skin problems. Number six, sandalwood
oil. This was used for gorrhea,
bronchitis, bladder infections because
apparently it actually decreases ecoli
and salmonella in the bladder. Number
seven, sassifras oil. This is a stuff
they make root beer from, but as a root.
It's a very good antiseptic, especially
for root canals. So, apparently, it's an
antibacterial. Number eight, betane
hydrochloride. I was surprised to see
this in there, but I wasn't really
surprised because I knew this was a
remedy that was used long ago. I
recommend it for anything related to
bloating, indigestion, acid reflux,
heartburn, because it acidifies the
stomach. It's a precursor for
hydrochloric acid and it also can help
kill off microbes, but they used it back
in the 20s as a way to help with
indigestion and gastric problems. And
then number nine, pepsin. This is an
enzyme and they use that for digestive
issues. And just as a side note, this
enzyme won't work unless your stomach is
really acidic because enzymes are
dependent a lot of times on the pH.
Certain enzymes get turned on when it's
more alkaline and this one gets turned
on when your stomach is majorly acidic
to help you break down protein. Number
10, lugos iodine. I think they still use
this in medicine for certain things to
prepare for surgery, but back in the day
they use this for other conditions as
well. uh hyperthyroid conditions as well
as to protect the thyroid against
radiation because if you've been exposed
to radiation, you want to take iodine to
prevent the radiation from destroying
the thyroid. Number 11, magnesium
sulfate. This is Epsom salts. I mean,
it's just wild that this was medicine
back in the 20s. This was used to relax
people, help them sleep, help with
anxiety. It was used as a painkiller. It
was also used for depression. And the
thing I like about a lot of these
remedies is they had very little side
effects. Of course, this has been
replaced by all sorts of medications.
And then we get number 12, calcium
chloride. This is something to help
acidify the body. If the body is too
alkaline, the person may have a tendency
to get itching or they might get
allergies or asthma might be triggered.
So, this is a good way to acidify the
body to reduce those symptoms until you
can really correct the cause of the body
being too alkaline. And just as a side
note, I typically recommend magnesium
for those conditions. But when you put
calcium in an acidic condition,
sometimes calcium can also cause the
relaxation of the muscle spasm. All
right, number 13, liver extract for
anemia. because it's so high in iron and
B12 and it has the other co-actors all
in one package. I mean, look what they
have now. They have synthetic B12. They
have types of iron that they give you
that is just like not bioavailable. But
when we're talking about anemia and
liver extract, we're talking about heem
iron and also a much better form of B12
that can actually address anemia. And
then number 14, methylene blue. a lot.
This was one of the first medications
they came up with that was synthetic.
And this is a synthetic dye, but it's
very different than how they make dyes
nowadays. So, it's a completely
different structure. And there's a
tremendous amount of research on this.
And they used it back then to shrink
tumors. They used it for menitis.
They used it for bladder infection. They
used it for gorrhea. And apparently now
it's kind of coming back and a lot of
people are using it. Methylene blue
tends to help the mitochondria. So if
there's mitochondrial damage, which is
behind a lot of chronic illness,
methylene blue can go in there and help
to make it work a little bit more
efficiently. Number 15, lithium
carbonate. Now, this has been used for a
long time. They still use it for
bipolar, but back in the day, they had
lithium springs. People would go there
just bathe in this water that had
lithium in it and they would feel more
relaxed and they even made a lithium
water drink and it was called lithiated
lemon lime soda and they had different
rhymes about it. Take the ouch out of
the grouch because apparently when you
have lithium in low dosages it can
actually help anxiety and depression.
But in 1948, they banned lithium from
these drinks and so they took it out of
this drink and so they changed the name
to SevenUp. The soda 7Up used to have
lithium in it. As far as the name Seven
goes, there's speculation on where that
came from. Some people say it was
because on the periodic table, lithium
had a weight of seven. Other people said
it was because of the number of
ingredients in that soda. But there's a
lot of people now taking lithium oritate
which is in much smaller dosages than
the lithium carbonate that they use in
the medical profession which is like a
100 times uh more. So people take
lithium to improve their mood. Number 16
globers salt and it's used as a laxative
something to purge toxins from your
body. And then number 17, vitamin D. Of
course, now I have an older medical book
from 1972 where they were using 280,000
international units of vitamin D3 for
certain autoimmune conditions. Yes,
that's right. And then in the next
edition, it went down to like 600 IUs.
Personally, I think there's been a lot
of suppression of vitamin D, and I think
that most people need at least 6,000 to
10,000 IUs on a daily basis just to
maintain their vitamin D levels,
especially when you understand how
important vitamin D is for so many
different things. Vitamin D helps bring
your mood up. Vitamin D is essential for
literally every part of your immune
system. Vitamin D helps with lower back
pain that can refer into your legs and
your pelvis. And vitamin D is essential
in women who are pregnant and little
babies to prevent all sorts of dental
malf formations and structural problems,
too. Number 18, colloidal silver. Now,
I'm going to make a disclaimer right now
because they took down all my videos on
colloidal silver. I put them on Rumble
on YouTube. You cannot make any claims
about colloidal silver. So I am not
making any claims. All I'm going to do
is I'm going to tell you what was in
this older medical textbook on colloidal
silver. I am not recommending it. I'm
just the messenger telling you what I
read and you can look it up too. But
colloidal silver was used extensively as
a topical antibacterial thing to
actually clean wounds up. Back then it
was used as a natural antibiotic because
this was before antibiotics. So of
course this was replaced by antibiotics
and so right now you can't really talk
too much about it but it was used back
then by mainstream medicine. Number 19,
activated charcoal. This was used if you
had food poisoning, if you had gas or
some type of toxin. And then number 20,
niacin. Niain is vitamin B3 and it's one
of the natural things that can lower
triglyceride and increase HDL. It has
extensive research, a lot of research on
improving your lifespan and reducing
cardiovascular incidents. Nascin has
been also used for certain type of
psychiatric problems involving bipolar,
schizophrenia and also providing the
precursor for your mitochondria to build
NAD. NAD is something to help you
produce energy in the mitochondria at a
fraction of the cost of some of these
other products. Now, because we talked
about natural remedies, I have some of
my favorite natural remedies in a video
that I highly recommend you watch right
now. And I'm going to put it up right
here. Check it out.
