What happens when you stop eating after
6 p.m.? When you eat past 6:00 p.m.,
you're actually turning off your body's
repair system. And so many people are
very unaware of this because they're
focusing on what they're eating, but not
when they're eating. Here's what's
fascinating about this topic. You can
eat perfectly clean food, healthy food,
whole food. You can avoid sugar, you can
avoid junk food, and still mess up your
metabolism every single night. And
what's really behind this is food is not
just fuel. It's actually a timing
signal, and every time you eat, you're
telling your body certain things. Like
it's daytime, okay? Stay alert, store
energy. But at night, you don't want
those messages. At night, your body is
supposed to go through repair mode. And
eating late at night sends the wrong
message at the wrong time. There's
something that occurs at night, which is
called autophagy. Autophagy is a
condition where your body is doing a
deep cleaning, turning damaged
mitochondria into normal cells. And
realize that damaged mitochondria is
literally behind every single chronic
disease. So when you're in autophagy,
the body is removing things that are
creating inflammation, things that are
aging you unnecessarily. And autophagy
only gets activated when this hormone,
insulin, is low. And the problem is
every time you eat, you raise it. So
this is why it's so important not to eat
past 6:00. And this also has a lot to do
with aging as well. Just the timing of
when you eat can actually help you live
longer. And late-night eating steals
that away from you. I would say that out
of all the bad habits that we have,
eating late at night or grazing is right
at the top of the list. And not just for
what it does with the lack of repair,
also what it can do to melatonin.
Melatonin is the hormone that helps you
feel tired and go to sleep. So eating
late at night can actually severely
interrupt your ability to go to sleep
and then maintain a good sleep. Eating
late at night really affects your
digestion as well. You might go to bed
completely bloated. I mean, this was me
for years.
I would eat right after dinner
constantly until I went to bed every
single night. It was a non-stop feast,
okay? And boy, did I have bloating, acid
reflux. And then when you wake up in the
morning, you feel really kind of crappy.
You feel kind of groggy, tired, and I
had a lot of digestive issues. All of
that is going to increase your cortisol.
Cortisol is a stress hormone. So
cortisol is supposed to be the lowest at
2:00 a.m. in the middle of the night.
But eating after 6:00 really raises your
cortisol, and it throws off your stress
level. So that then can affect your
blood sugar the next day, causing you to
crave sweets, causing you to have high
and low blood sugar the next day. When
people have blood sugar issues,
I would always ask them, "What did you
do yesterday?"
Eating past 6:00 was at the top of the
list. And what's really wild about this
whole topic
is most people are not hungry at night.
It's not about hunger. It's about
dopamine hunger. Very, very different.
Dopamine is a neurotransmitter that
causes you to want to eat certain things
and want to snack, especially when
you're stressed, bored, tired, even
though you're completely stuffed after
dinner,
dopamine will cause you to want a little
something sweet or salty or crunchy late
at night. This is not about hunger. This
is about a malfunction of this dopamine
that will literally cause you to go in
the cupboard and get something and eat
it. And if you think about it, when you
have these cravings after dinner, you're
not craving steak and eggs. You're
craving sweet type things. And if we
don't fix this, it's going to severely
affect your ability to burn fat, also
get rid of inflammation, and also handle
your digestive system, especially with
bloating. And now I'm going to show you
how to break this habit once and for
all. It's going to be very, very simple.
You must change your environment, okay?
In your kitchen, in the refrigerator, in
the cupboards, in the pantry,
you cannot have snacks anymore. You have
to get those out of the house. Yes, I'm
sorry to break this to you.
That is a hard rule. You've got to work
on that. Now, if you have other people
in your family that will not allow you
to do that, at the very least, put the
snack foods in certain containers,
and put them up high or put them in the
garage, somewhere where you're adding
friction and it's difficult to get to
it. So a lot of people ask me, "What
supplements do I recommend?" Now, of
course, I'm not biased with my own
high-quality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg
supplements,
you'll find more information. Number
two, after 6:00, you should turn the
lights off in the kitchen, have a little
sign that says the kitchen is closed.
Feeding time is done. Brush your teeth
is another thing that will signal and
let your body know you're done. Because
it'll make it a little bit more
difficult to eat, especially if you have
some minty freshness in your mouth, and
you don't want to mess that up. The next
thing is no visible food
in your house. So many people have these
little bowls of candies or snack foods
or nuts. Get all of that stuff in the
refrigerator or in your pantry. Don't
have it visible because if it's in front
of your face, it's just too easy. We
want to add friction between you and
this food. And also don't give in to the
I'll just have one little bite because
that will also nullify the results that
you want to achieve, especially when
you're sleeping. What you want to do is
you want to go from 6:00 all the way
until the next day with no food. You can
drink water, you can do tea, things like
that, but no food. You want your body in
this autophagy mode. And by doing that,
you're going to help your sleep, you're
going to help your fat burning, you're
going to help your recovery, you're
going to help your cortisol, you're
going to help your digestion. And if you
change your environment, like you go to
the grocery store and you make it a rule
that you go there with the list, you get
very specific things around the
perimeter, not in the middle of the
aisles where they have all the junk
food. You get in, you get out, and then
that way at your home, you don't bring
these temptations to your house. So that
way you lessen the choices. People have
this illusion that we have freedom of
choice. No, you don't. If you go to the
grocery store, yeah, you there's so many
different things,
but the common ingredients for literally
almost every junk food are three things:
sugar, starch, seed oils, but they're
all engineered for addiction.
And since we talked about not eating
after 6:00, I think it's really
important now to get details on how to
do intermittent fasting. And for that
information, I put a video up right
here. Check it out.
