Drugs were never designed to cure you.
It's 100% true. And today I'm going to
actually prove that. But we really need
to start in 1938.
This is when a definition was redefined
that literally gave big pharma a
monopoly over your body. And from then
on, health has become one of the most
profitable businesses in existence. It
was called the federal food drug and
cosmetic act where they redefined the
word drug.
In the food drug and cosmetic act, the
term drug is defined and it's defined as
anything that is intended for use in the
cure, treatment, prevention, mitigation
of disease. What if you drink prune
juice and you drink it because you are
suffering from chronic constipation? Do
you regard prune juice as a drug? Well,
the FDA does because the FDA has defined
it as a drug to protect the drug
companies from competition. If a natural
remedy or a plant or an herb or even a
food does anything to improve this
abnormal state of your body, it is now
classified as a drug. So, if someone
makes a claim that garlic can actually
help your cholesterol and reduce risk of
a heart attack, for example, and they're
selling garlic, um, they're going to get
in trouble. And now that they're using a
disease claim, that garlic is no longer
just this thing you put in your food to
make it taste better. It is a drug,
even if it's something we eat every day.
And I need to define disease first
before I get into this. Disease is any
abnormal mental or body condition. And
in 1900, we had less than 200 diseases.
Now we have over 17,000 diseases. It's
been a real barrier to innovation, to
the communication of truthful
information to consumers. I mean,
without that, you'd be able to go to the
grocery store and read all about the
various nutrients and foods and have
little things that are saying, "Hey,
this has more vitamin C and this will
reduce your risk of disease in these
areas." And you'd be able to see that at
the point of sale and be able to guide
choices
with that. The American people have been
deprived of truthful information
essential to their health,
even for normal conditions, right? You
have if your attention is not that
great, you have tension deficit
disorder. If you had a loss of a loved
one and have grief, you have adjustment
disorder. If you're shy, you have social
anxiety disorder. If you're nervous
before a speech, you have performance
disorder. I think I had that one. And
you don't even have to be sick to have a
disease. You could have a risk factor
like let's say your cholesterol is high.
High cholesterol is not a disease, but
that then is heavily treated, right,
with drugs. pre-diabetes. You didn't
even get diabetes yet. You have
pre-diabetes. That's considered a
disease.
There is no other industry that has been
given as long a patent life protection
for their drugs than the drug industry.
There's no other industry in the country
that has the federal government serving
as its patent protection police. So
disease really has turned into a big
business and it's all about creating
awareness on all the different types of
diseases that could be out there and
getting you to buy into that and then
getting the doctors to treat them with
medication.
Ordinarily, if you have a patent, you
have to go protect it yourself. With the
drug industry, the FDA protects their
patents.
It's modeled perfectly to keep this big
pharma machine going on. And the whole
thing is policed by the FDA. So the FDA
really is protecting the drug companies
big time.
The founding fathers when they created
the first amendment to the constitution
intended there to be no power whatsoever
by the federal government over speech
and press. And so what we have is
something that was even forbidden under
the Black Stonian law that precedes the
American Constitution and was a braces
in part for it. In fact, the
Blackstonian law is embedded within the
first amendment forbids prior
restraints.
Now, prior restraints are when the
government says you may not talk about a
particular topic unless we approve it.
That's a prior restraint. And that's
what they do in the case of nutrients.
They say, "Okay, yeah, you have proof
that a nutrient reduces the risk of
disease, but you can't talk about it
unless we, the United States government,
the Food and Drug Administration, say
you can." Now, that's a prior restraint,
and that's what the founding fathers
forbad. They said, "No way. We're not
going to let the government be a super
editor and deprive you of your right to
speak." And this is why when I do videos
on all these natural remedies that help
diseases, I am never selling anything.
Okay? Even if there's legitimate
research. Now, I'm just going to go
through this really quickly. You've got
to hear this. I'm going to go through
seven natural remedies that not just
compare to a drug as far as
effectiveness, but work better based on
randomized control studies. St. John's
wart works better than SSRIs for
depression. They tested it side by side,
251 patients with moderate and severe
depression, 6 weeks. So there's 70%
results for St. John's wart versus only
60% the drug. But the side effects were
much greater for the drug than St.
John's wart, of course, because the SSRI
produced sexual dysfunction and all
sorts of other issues. Here's another
one. Red yeast rice worked better than
statins. So this was a meta analysis of
15 randomized control studies for
cardiovascular risk reduction. These
were the results. A 45% reduction for
red yeast rice versus only a 30%
reduction for statins in long-term
trials. Plus the side effects were less
than half. Here's another one. Black
kohash worked better than hormone
replacement therapy. Again, another
randomized control study of 89
menopausal women over 12 weeks. There
was a reduction by 80% for the black
kohash and only a 60% reduction for
hormone replacement therapy. Bourberine
worked better than metformin for type 2
diabetes. This was a randomized control
study of 116 type 2 diabetics over 3
months. showed bourberine reduced A1C
that's an average of blood sugar for
three months by 12%. Versus metformin
was only 11%. But the cool thing is
there was less side effects with the
bourberine than metformin. Next one
lavender oil better than laorazzipam for
anxiety. This study involved 221 anxiety
patients over 10 weeks. Showed lavender
oil reduced anxiety scores by 16 points
versus larazzipam only reduced it by 14
points with only 1/5if of the side
effects. Interesting. Here's one. Salt
pull metal better than tempsin for lower
urinary tract symptoms. In a randomized
control trial of 140 patients over 48
weeks, these natural herbs reduce the
symptoms by 5.8 points versus the drug
only 5.2 points with much less side
effects. And when we talk about the
reduction of points, we're talking about
a urinary tract symptom score which
indicates improvement. And then the last
one I want to talk about is wormwood. It
worked better than misalazine for
Crohn's disease. This is a inflammatory
colon problem. Wormwood showed a
remission rate of 80% versus only 65%
for the drug. But here's the big
problem. It doesn't matter if all of
these natural remedies showed some very
credible research that it can work
better than a drug or comparable to a
drug. It doesn't matter. If you want to
say that anything that is a nutrient
reduces the risk of disease or treats
disease, you cannot say it. It's
forbidden. If you really want to say it,
you must petition us, present the
evidence, and then we'll decide whether
or not we think you should say it.
Why? Because the law says that if it
improves disease, it is classified as a
drug. 40 to 70% of all drugs originated
from nature or a microbe or marine life.
But then this ancient remedy that stood
the test of time, that's worked for
thousands of years, is now considered
folklore or quackery or unscientific or
unproven. You just found that an extract
actually can help or create an effect
with the disease, but now you're
discrediting where it came from. But I
think it might help to understand what a
drug really does. Most drugs, not all of
them, but most of them inhibit an
enzyme. Now, you probably can't see this
entire chart, but this is a a huge
diagram of biochemistry in your body.
All the different uh biochemical
pathways that have enzymes that allow
food to be converted to fuel, to allow
food to be converted to raw material to
make body tissue. And and this is
basically the mechanics of what's going
on in your cells. And so what a drug
does is it'll inhibit just one little
enzyme in this biochemical factory. Now
let's say for example we take a drug
that inhibits an enzyme called five
alpha reductase. The effect that that
creates when you do that is it helps to
reduce the enlargement of the prostate
gland and it helps you grow your hair
back and that drug is called finestride.
So in this example, testosterone
normally converts to a more powerful
form of testosterone called DHT.
And if there's too much of this, okay,
then you get enlarged prostate. Then you
get hair loss. So the whole goal is to
inhibit this enzyme. So therefore, we
block this biochemical pathway
inhibiting this enzyme. Sounds pretty
cool, right? But the question is, is
this fixing the real problem?
Now, is it correcting anything? No. It's
just stopping one little enzyme in one
little pathway. It does nothing with the
underlying cause. Because the real
question is, why do you have this
increased DHT in the first place, right?
That's never ever addressed. And this is
why when you start taking a drug, you
never really come off the drug because
it never corrects anything. You just
keep taking it over and over for the
rest of your life. I mean, I would love
to just have you ask your doctor and
say, "How long do I have to take this
before it corrects it?" Because it
doesn't correct it. This is why drugs
don't fix anything. They just patch
things up enough to reduce some of the
symptoms and manage those symptoms.
That's pretty much all they do. But
here's the problem. The drugs are
compounded with more strength. Okay? So
it's going to with aggressiveness really
inhibit this enzyme compared to the
natural remedy that they developed it
from. So the problem with the drugs is
they have more side effects than natural
things. And that's why they have this uh
massive problem called post finasteride
syndrome where you're basically having
all sorts of complications with the drug
because you potently block this enzyme
and that comes with a package. Atrophy
of the penis, erectile dysfunction, you
lose your pleasure from sex. I'm going
to tell you right now, every single
medical condition has a root cause, but
that's kind of been pushed off to the
side because if it was known or
aggressively went after, big pharma
would really take a hit. The number one
reason why your DHT is too high is
because you have insulin resistance. Too
much insulin raises androgens,
especially this type of androgen right
here. This is a powerful form of
testosterone. This is why men that have
insulin resistance tend to lose their
hair and also they have enlarged
prostate. And of course, insulin
resistance comes from too many carbs,
eating too frequently, eating junk food.
Another cause of this would be high
levels of chronic stress that can
increase cortisol. or liver problems can
do it because if you have a liver
problem, you'll have more free
testosterone to then turn into this
because one purpose of the liver is to
protect you against too many hormones.
Okay? So, it's there's a buffer in there
that protects you. Another cause of this
would be low zinc in the body because
zinc naturally controls this and keeps
this at a normal level. And how many
people are deficient in zinc? A lot of
people. But the problem in medicine is
when you go to the doctor, they're going
to treat the symptom. They're going to
omit these lifestyle changes. They're
not going to focus on root causes.
That's not what it's about. So, the
question is, why aren't these amazing
natural remedies being promoted to help
people with all their conditions because
they have their hands tied? They can't.
Natural remedies, if they help the body,
are considered drugs in the
classification of drugs. And that would
have to go through the FDA approval
process and take billions of dollars,
which is not going to happen. Yes, we're
going to try to get the FDA to recognize
that its own rules are unconstitutional.
This will be an uphill battle, but we
need all the help we can get. And if we
succeed, the market will be delued with
information never before allowed to
reach the public about the specific
effects of nutrients on disease and that
will save lives. It will increase the
number of years of healthy living and
it'll also increase the overall
longevity of the American public. Now,
if you enjoyed what I just talked about,
you're going to really enjoy something a
bit more practical, things that you can
actually use to help heal your body
naturally by providing the key nutrients
that prevent a lot of health problems.
This video is about 21 signs that your
body needs specific nutrients. Check it
out right now.
