The most powerful immune food on planet
Earth. 100% designed by nature, but
actually programs your immune system.
Something so advanced, so magical, so
potent that our society wouldn't even
exist without it. Can you guess what it
is? Antiviral properties. It's also
known as a wound healer. Anti-tumor
properties. is basically an immune
system download from your mom to you
without having to go through all the
experience of getting infections,
developing antibodies, and developing an
immune system. It's actually something
in the first breast milk, colostrum. If
you haven't been breastfed as an infant,
you can still take colostrum. I'm going
to talk about all of the things that it
can do for you that go way beyond
strengthening your immune system.
Colostrum is produced in the first 24 to
72 hours after birth. It's a thick
yellowy fluid, kind of a golden color,
rich in probiotics, including Elutery.
And I've done videos just on that one
microbe and how it increases oxytocin,
uh, social bonding, reducing stress, and
why people are missing it. Either they
haven't been breastfed or they had
antibiotics because that microbe is very
sensitive to antibiotics. 100 times more
immune building than just regular milk.
It also has stem cells as well as a very
important prebiotic HMO that's going to
feed the probiotic produced by the
breast is going into the baby and
feeding certain really key microbes that
then develop the immune system. And then
along with the colostrum in the breast
milk, you have a good amount of
cholesterol which is really important to
build an infant's brain. very high
levels of omega-3 fats, which a lot of
your brain is made out of. You also have
hormones like oxytocin, you have
cortisol. So, in early breast milk,
including colostrum, we're not just
feeding the baby. We are reprogramming
all sorts of immune cells. We're
building the body. We're forming the
brain, the eyes. And what's really cool
about this is there's a dynamic
interaction between infant saliva and
the interaction with the breast in that
there's certain sensors that will pick
up from the saliva uh certain
microorganisms, maybe an infection,
maybe a low nutrient, and then on demand
the breast starts producing immune
factors to protect the infant. And then
if we compare that to what most infants
consume, which is infant formula, it's
really sad because yes, the infant
formula has calories, but what type of
calories? You're using the lowest
quality calories you can get. It's
basically early ultrarocessed food
calories. If you ever look at the
ingredients, it has malttodextrin. They
put soy in there. It's just low quality.
And it's lacking the X factor, the
immune intelligence. You don't get any
probiotics either. then the child's more
uh predisposed to allergies, asthma,
skin problems, obesity, and even
cognitive delays. I hope I'm impressing
on you the importance of breastfeeding.
So, if you know anyone who is pregnant
or going to have children, encourage
them to do breastfeeding. It sets the
stage for long-term health. Without that
colostrum, there could be a lot of
issues that happen way down the road. I
live in a farm. We have sheep, we have
goats, we have chickens. And what's
really interesting when a sheep has um
babies and if the mother doesn't survive
that baby sheep without colostrum a lot
of times they won't make it. And it's
amazing because with humans we don't
even think twice about it. We don't
really encourage that colostrum early
on. But what does that have to do with
you right now? Well, let's just take a
look at colostrum. You can get it as a
supplement. But first, let me tell you
what colostrum is good for. Okay. The
first condition that it's really good
for is problems in your gut. If you have
a leaky gut, if there's damage in your
gut, you need to take colostrum. It has
significant gut healing power and it can
help lower inflammation. It can help the
ratio of keeping your pathogens down
where your microbes are higher.
Colostrum is also really powerful for
anything respiratory allergies. If you
have asthma, colostrum also helps an
overactive immune system, as in an
autoimmune disease. There's a lot of
skin problems that people have, eczema,
things like that. They should take
colostrum. But colostrum can also be
taken when you get older and your thymus
gland, the master immune gland on top of
your heart that's supposed to make tea
cells to the point where it really
shriveles up and it becomes really,
really tiny as you get older. Well,
guess what? Colostrum can help support
the thymus gland. It's also good for any
age related problem. Whether you're
losing muscle mass or you have age-
related wrinkles on your skin, macular
degeneration, arthritis, long COVID,
Hashimoto's, autistic people would
really benefit or whether you have Lyme
disease. Now, the type of colostrum you
get is very, very important. It's heat
sensitive, and a lot of the colostrum
out there is not freeze-dried, okay?
Which means it's kind of virtually raw.
You want to get the freeze-dried version
of colostrum. So, I hope I uh raised
your awareness on the importance of uh
breastfeeding, but especially colostrum,
which is something you can take even
later in life. Thank you so much for
watching. I will see you in the next
