These ingredients are killing your dog.
Today, we're going to do a deep dive
into dog food. And I'm talking about
ingredients not just linked to cancer.
I'll cover those, but a lot of other
problems as well. Initially, when you
read it, it's going to sound like, "Oh,
wow. That's really good for your dog,
right?" What you're actually dealing
with with dog food is waste products
from the meat industry that they put in
the dumpster. But not just from the meat
industry, from many different
industries. Today, we're just going to
take the average dog food that most dogs
consume and just kind of go through the
label. Starting with the first
ingredient right here, ground whole
grain corn, like corn on the cob, right?
That's not the type of corn we're
talking about. It's not sweet corn. It's
a very specific type of corn called dent
corn or field corn, which is super
starchy and they feed it to cattle, but
they also put it in dog food. Now, the
first thing you need to know is the
first ingredient is probably the
majority of those ingredients. So,
they're putting a lot of this corn in
there. And so, you're getting this very
lowquality subsidized corn, which means
the taxpayers end up paying for a good
majority of it. But, it's not organic
corn. It's going to be GMO corn,
genetically modified corn, which means
it's going to have traces of glyphosate,
which also has been linked to cancer.
That's an herbicide. And that corn could
be sitting somewhere for over a year
accumulating a very deadly aphletoxin
which is uh been known to cause cancer
in the liver and different parts of a
dog's body. But to me what really jumps
out is your dog consuming a refined corn
product as probably the majority of that
product. And what is that going to do to
the blood sugars? I mean think about it.
They feed this to cattle. What happens
to cattle when they feed all this grain?
They get acidosis. Cattle has never been
meant to consume that much grain, let
alone dogs. So, you're going to put dogs
on this highly refined starch, which
basically is hidden sugar. What's really
interesting about that is they don't
list any sugar or starch or carbs on the
label. That is a loophole. When you look
at any label of food, it'll come with
this thing called the nutritional facts.
Okay? And that lists how much
carbohydrate and sugar. Well, guess
what? In dog food, they don't have to
list it. They don't tell you how much
sugar or carb that's in that product,
but there is a way to find out, and I'm
going to put how to find out in the
description. I already did the
calculations on the average bag of dog
food, and this is on the low end. But
the amount of carbohydrates in an
average bag of dog food, is literally
48%.
Some sugar, but mainly starch, highly
refined flour, which has the power to
severely spike the blood sugar of your
dog. Over 50% of your dog food is
basically hidden sugar, which is going
to create metabolic issues like a fatty
liver, obesity, eventually type two
diabetes, and a whole bunch of other
issues. We know what happens to humans.
Well, it also happens to dogs. Number
two, meat and bone meal sounds healthy
for a dog, but what is the actual
quality of the meat meal or bone meal?
Well, they call it the four Ds. Okay?
because the source of where they're
getting that meat could come from dead
animals, dying animals, diseased
animals, or disabled animals. I'm
talking about roadkill, zoo animals,
even pets like other dogs that have been
euthanized. They use an injection to
kill the dog for some reason, and then
that ends up in the dog food. And the
common drug that they use to kill these
animals is called pentobarbatl. and
they're finding that drug in a high
percentage of certain types of dog food
as long as they kill the pathogens, the
microbes, it's legal. So basically,
they're going to take these animals and
they're going to cook them at very high
temperatures and that's called
rendering. Well, first of all, yes,
you're killing the pathogens, but you're
also killing everything else in there,
too. Any potential nutrition, whether
it's organ meats or whatever, like it's
just wiping that out. And it's really
bad because there's no oversight on what
type of animals arrive in this dog meal
and where they came from. So that's the
protein source. Number three, soybean
meal. First of all, a dog is never meant
to consume soybeans. Okay? And it's not
just fermented soybeans that you would
get from a Japanese restaurant. You're
getting a highly processed GMO has been
through hexane, which is a solvent, a
chemical that's in gasoline. they have
to use that to extract the protein. So
you end up getting this highly refined
very incomplete protein and certain
phytonutrients in soy can affect the
thyroid. Uh it can affect testosterone.
If your dog is pregnant, that can affect
the offspring to a certain degree. And
then number four, animal fat. H that
sounds pretty okay for an animal, right?
You can animal fat. Dogs will love that.
But when you actually read on the label,
it'll say animal fat and then
parenthesis a source of omega6 fatty
acids. I'm like, wait a second, that's a
red flag. Animal fat is mostly saturated
fat. The fact that they emphasize it was
very strange to me. So I looked it up
and this is what I found. Legally, they
can also stick in with the animal fat,
wherever that came from. Seed oils, not
from this cold expeller pressed organic
seed oils. I'm talking about the seed
oils that have been highly oxidized from
restaurants that they recycle that they
end up putting in the pet food feeding
agricultural animals as well. That's
going to give you a highly oxidized fat
that from my viewpoint is like
carcinogenic because that is going to
destroy the mitochondria and the
different cellular structures. We have
hidden seed oils in the animal fat. Of
course, those seed oils are also GMO, so
we have glyphosate. You got a lot of lot
of bad stuff in there. And then they
have to preserve it with like uh
something called BHA or BHT. Well, these
also are known carcinogens. Uh and
they're banned in Europe, but they're
okay to sell in the US. I mean, just
look at some of the things that can
trigger cancer. Aphletoxin, glyphosate,
uh, BHA, BHT, oxidized seed oils, hexane
over here. Let's go to number five. Corn
gluten meal. Wow, that sounds pretty
good. Like corn, well, gluten. Well,
gluten might be a problem, but well,
guess what? This corn gluten meal has no
gluten in it. This is the the byproduct
when they make ethanol and grain
products. It's very, very cheap. It has
a certain protein in corn. It's called
Zen, which is extremely poor absorbing,
very incomplete. Be lucky if you get any
actual protein from that at all. But
this is another cheap filler, a
byproduct that they just end up sticking
in this uh dog food. The next one,
number six, chicken byproduct meal. Hm.
What's in that? Well, that would be the
four Ds. Dead, dying, diseased, or
disabled. They grind up the bones, the
carcass, the organs.
I'm not sure if they put the feathers in
there or not, but they just grind
everything in there and that becomes the
dog food. What about if that chicken has
antibiotics? Well, it could be in there
as well because they do use antibiotics
a lot with chickens. Number seven, red
40, yellow six, blue two. First of all,
why are they putting uh food coloring in
the dog food? Is it for the dog? It's
like dog food is like brown, right? But
sometimes it's like different colors, so
it makes it look like there's vegetables
or this in there. It's just food
coloring. We don't need to put food
coloring in dog food. And that's going
to come with a package because we know,
at least in humans, it creates a lot of
problems neurologically, but also
there's been some data that shows it can
actually trigger tumor formation. Number
eight, animal digest. Wow. What is that?
That is slaughterhouse waste. More
carcasses. It's kind of like um more
leftovers to trying to figure what to do
with it. Oh, let's just uh send it to
the dog food industry. Number nine,
wheat middlings. What's that? It's the
waste product from the wheat industry.
Is it nutrientdense? Uh probably not.
Also, there's another added ingredient
that's banned in Europe, but of course
it's uh legal in the US. Ethoxyquin,
which has been known to trigger cancer.
So, sometimes they'll put that in there.
Also, when they cook a lot of this
carbohydrate in high temperatures, that
can form acryumide. And I had I've done
videos on that. That's another thing
that can trigger cancer and other
problems, especially for the liver. When
your dog starts getting fat, they start
having dental problems. They start
developing arthritis. They start getting
cataracts, mood issues, blood sugar
issues, diabetes. Look to the food
because that's where it's really coming
from. So, I'm not going to show labels
and everything, but you could actually
see in this dog food looks. Wow. Look at
that steak and the peas and the carrot
in the background. Looks like a
wonderfully healthy meal for your animal
until we get down to these ingredients
right here. Right. So you have the
ground whole grain, corn, meat and bone
meal, soy meal, animal fat, source of
omega6 fatty acids preserved with BHA
and citric acid, corn, gluten meal,
natural flavors, dry plain beet pulp,
which you know, it sounds like, wow,
that's healthy fiber, right? But you're
actually getting a product that's GMO,
so it comes with glyphosate. And then
you have the chicken byproduct meal
right there. and then brewers
>> rice, which is the byproduct from the
rice industry, calcium carbonate,
limestone, and a bunch of synthetic
vitamins. Now, I don't want to actually
get into uh certain brands I'm
recommending, but you just want to look
start studying the label, but definitely
you want to have something without added
uh meat byproducts, wheat or corn,
artificial preservatives or colorings,
right? Like here's a good one right
here. White fish herring meal. White
fish meal source of glucosamine with uh
chondroitin sulfate. Okay. Peas, lentil,
that's fine. I'm not crazy about the
canola oil. Dried ground potatoes. Okay,
fine. Dried plain beet pulp. Flax seed.
Salmon meal. That's much better than the
soybean meal. Pea fiber. Okay, natural
flavor. Dried chory root. All right, so
now you know about what's really in pet
food. The next most important thing to
know is the worst possible ingredient in
human foods. And for that information,
you should watch this video right here.
