Dr. Burke here. I'm back again with
another video on gut health. Today we're
going to talk about the eight mistakes
that people make with their gut. Listen,
I've made every mistake in the book when
it comes down to gut health literally
for I'd say 12 to 15 years. I had a
permanent bloating painful gut. So, I'm
going to share some things with you that
are going to really help you. Let's
start with number one. Trying to fix
your gut with Viber. This is probably
the worst thing that you could possibly
do for your gut. Yet, it's the thing
that people will tell you to do. And
another name for fiber is a pre-biotic
because prebiotics are supposed to feed
the probiotics, which are your microbes.
Now, I want to give you some more
information about this fiber. Fiber has
a potential to feed the wrong microbes.
But why is it that we bloat so much when
we consume too much fiber? Well, it all
depends on what's happening with your
gut. If your gut is damaged, consuming
fiber is like taking sandpaper to an
open wound. It's not very good. You're
going to get gas. You're going to get
more inflammation. If your gut is
healthy, which is very rare, you can
tolerate more fiber. And if you have a
problem with it, maybe you want to have
less fiber. Maybe you want to consume
more cooked fiber, steamed or cooked
vegetables, okay, that's easier to
digest. or fermented fiber, as in
sauerkraut or kimchi, the more
inflammation you have in your gut, the
more you need to do carnivore. And
carnivore is a great thing to eliminate
all this fiber and these extra things
that are irritating your gut. And just
one of the cool things about carnivore
is it can help increase your glutamine.
Glutamine is a healing amino acid for
your gut. And then another healing thing
that you can do for the gut is zinc
carnosine. This is really good for
ulcers. Fasting is essential.
Intermittent fasting, no more snacks.
And also periodic prolonged fasting. Let
your system have a chance to rest and
heal. The amount of stress that the
digestive system gets by eating
constantly is so bad. Snacking is one of
the worst things you can do for your
digestive system. And this is why
fasting can greatly help you. Butyrate
is also something good for the microbes.
You can get that from butter. And this
is just another way to get food for your
colon cells. Colon cells do eat fiber
and turn that into a version of this
right here. Now, I'm not just saying to
dump a lot of butter into your body, but
don't be afraid to have some of it. It
could actually help you for your gut.
Let's talk about SIBO for a second. 40%
of the population has small intestinal
bacterial overgrowth. There's a great
thing you could do. I interview Dr.
William Davis who came up with this. But
you're basically taking this microbe L
rutery in a yogurt maker and then you
actually make your own high concentrated
microbes and that gets rid of the bad
guys. So it helps reduce SIBO, but it
also does other things like increase
your oxytocin that lowers your stress.
It also increase your social capacity
like you're going to be more social.
It's pretty wild. The other thing is you
want to increase your stomach acid to
kill off microbes from your food. Betain
hydrochloride is what I recommend for
any type of acid reflux, bloating. And
then also I recommend if you have any
gallbladder issues, you want to take a
purified bile salt after you eat, which
by the way will go in there and help
kill off some of the bacteria in here.
But I also recommend on an empty
stomach, Toddka. Take two in the
morning, in the evening. It will go in
there and help reduce SIBO with the help
of this as well. With the help of
fasting, very important. Do not snack.
Do not consume any fiber. The fiber is
going to add more fermentation because
those microbes are fermenting fiber and
is turning fiber into gas. There's a
couple other points I want to tell you
about the gut microbiome. You want to
actually eat for your microbes. You want
to take care of your microbes. One of
the things they love is polyphenols.
Okay? These are plant-based chemicals in
things like chocolate, of course,
without the sugar. Berries. They're in
coffee. They're in cacao. Avocado might
be a good way to get your polyphenols.
Or even extra virgin olive oil. Another
really good hack would be sauerkraut
juice. Okay? So you don't have the
fiber, but you just drink a little of
the juice. That's like some serious
probiotics, and that'll really help you.
Also, there's kefir as a good probiotic
that's better than yogurt.
Another point about skin issues. A lot
of skin issues will clear up when you
fix the gut because your microbes are
not just in the gut. They're all over
your body. Last interesting point is the
sun. Believe it or not, the sun, not
just the vitamin D, but the infrared
spectrum, the ultraviolet,
actually help your gut microbiome.
There's some research on it now. So, you
will find that your gut microbiome will
be happy when you get more sun, not to
mention your eyes, not to mention
melatonin in the cells will start
increasing, so your sleep cycles will be
better. And the absolute worst fiber in
the world is this thing right here,
whole grains. Because whole grains, and
I'm mainly talking about the big one
called wheat, is very different than the
wheat a thousand years ago, the ancient
wheat. Nowadays, we have something
called modern wheat. And modern wheat is
a completely different animal, high in a
type of protein called gluten that is
nearly impossible to digest. And then in
that fiber in the wheat called bran, you
have anti-nutrients like phitate or
phytic acid which blocks your ability to
absorb zinc, iron, magnesium. It blocks
calcium. Not to mention, it also has
things like oxalates which create
problems for your kidney in your gut and
your joints. And then of course this
breaks down the sugar pretty quick
creating a blood sugar spike. Let's go
to number two. typical probiotics or
yogurt. When you go to the store and buy
probiotics, a lot of times the amount of
probiotics in that bottle are so small,
it's not going to create really any
major difference in your gut. And then
what we do is we take yogurt, right?
Thinking that we're going to get all
this good bacteria in our gut. Well,
most yogurt that you buy commercially is
lowfat, which you never want to do
lowfat yogurt. It's filled with added
sugar, maltodextrin, starches. Now, if
you get a plain yogurt, grass-fed,
organic, that's really good. Even though
some of those microbes never really
receded your gut, they can act for food
for your microbes to a certain degree.
If you have something called grass-fed
kefir, that's a lot better. Number
three, colon cleansing. When you
detoxify all this waste, it sounds
superficially like a good thing. I'm
going to clean all this waste out. I'm
going to feel clean. But what's
happening is you're getting rid of all
the friendly bacteria and you have to
get those microbes back. Sometimes
you're doing this colon hydrotherapy and
then you end up with constipation and
other problems. And this is why I don't
recommend a lot of detoxing unless you
have something that you really need to
detox. But generally speaking, you got
to get to the root of it and actually
work on your diet because your foods in
your diet can actually help your liver
naturally detoxify poisons through the
liver. Number four, antibiotics. Now,
I'm not telling you not to take an
antibiotic, but you just have to be
cautious about antibiotics because they
can mess you up. If someone tells you
that your microbiome is going to come
back to where it was, they're lying to
you because it never does. You'll never
have the pattern of microbes that you
once had after you take an antibiotic.
And I used to take a lot of antibiotics
over and over and over and over at the
first sign of some type of sickness.
Realize antibiotics only get rid of
bacterial infections. They don't touch
viral infections. And antibiotics
don't ever kill everything.
A lot of it they do, but then those
microbes that survive start to become
very resistant and they become superbugs
and they actually pass on this
information to other microbes to the
point where these antibiotics at one
time when they worked will no longer
work again. This is a slippery slope.
Anytime you do get an antibiotic, make
sure you're also at the same time taking
some probiotic to put back these
microbes. Now, at first, someone's going
to say, "Oh, yeah. Well, you don't want
to put back these microbes because you
have an infection." Well, you're not
putting back pathogens. You're putting
back friendly bacteria. Don't we want
friendly bacteria? When you kill off
your bacteria, you're killing off both
the good guys and the bad guys. And
that's the problem. It's not selective
just to the bad guys. So be cautious
about this. Let's talk about number
five, ant acids. When you have acid
reflux, most of the time that means you
don't have enough acid and this messes
up the valve on the top of the stomach.
The valve starts becoming leaky and it
opens up and the acid comes back up and
then you're thinking, "Oh my gosh, I
have too much acid." No, you have a
valve problem. And now we're treating
the wrong problem. We're making your
stomach acids less acid. So now the next
time you eat, it's the same or worse.
And over time it gets weaker and weaker
and weaker to the point where now you
have a lot of problems digesting food
because we need this strong acid in your
stomach. The normal acid pH in your
stomach should be between one and three.
That's like battery acid. But that's
what we need to actually digest our
protein. That's what we need to kill off
microbes. That's what we need to absorb
minerals. And so then if you don't have
enough acid, what's going to happen is
that undigested food at the stomach
level is going to end up in the small
intestine undigested. And now the small
intestine is going to work harder to
digest it. And now we're going to get
all sorts of issues with bloating,
constipation, diarrhea. And so this is
another thing that I highly recommend
you find an alternative. But again,
check with your doctor before
implementing any of the information.
Number six, low-fat diets. Low-fat diets
are not good for your digestion because
your gallbladder is triggered by fat.
And if you don't have that trigger to
the gallbladder, you produce less bile.
That bile is there to help digest fat to
break it down to the point where the
enzymes from the pancreas can then take
over and really break it down into small
particles so you can absorb the healthy
parts of fat like the fat soluble
vitamins and the omega-3 fatty acids.
And if you don't have enough bile,
you'll tend to have either constipation
or you won't get this really important
function of killing off the microbes in
the small intestine. The small intestine
is where you don't want a lot of
microbes. The large intestine is where
you have the majority of microbes. And
so bile is like a detergent that keeps
the bacteria
out of the small intestine. And then the
bile goes all the way down this tube and
it gets recycled back up to the liver.
When you go on a low-fat diet, we have
less bile to do that action. So when
you're on an ant acid or you have less
stomach acid, we don't have the
triggering system of the gallbladder,
too. So both the acid of the stomach and
sufficient fat for the gallbladder is
needed to allow a good digestion because
if there's too much bacteria in your
small intestine, you will develop
something called small intestinal
bacterial overgrowth. You're just going
to be like bloated all the time. You
take a a goat, their whole digestive
system fermentss. Okay, this is why they
have these big guts. one of our small
goats that we got. I thought there was a
problem because the stomach was
completely distended. I drove an hour
and a half to the veterinarian to show
this vet that, oh my gosh, we have this
problem with this small goat. And he's
like, uh, that's normal. That's called
fermentation. And I'm like, oh, okay.
Well, that's what happens in humans.
They get this huge gut bloat because
they have fermentation in the wrong
place. Number seven, a balanced diet.
What does the balanced diet mean to some
people? It'll mean, well, just have a
little bit of everything. That is the
worst advice because typically they're
going to go higher in carbohydrates. Too
many carbohydrates feed the bad bacteria
and they will create bloating. If you
lower your carbohydrates from the
typical 45 to 65%
of someone's calories being
carbohydrates down to maybe 10%,
your digestion is going to be so much
better. And lastly, superfood shakes. I
used to recommend kale and fruit shakes.
If you ask an average person, what are
some superfoods? They're going to say
kale, spinach, berries, and then they
make the shake. About 3 to four minutes
later, they're bloated. Why? Because
you're overloading the small intestine
with fiber. But just so you know, I've
upgraded my information and my new
superfood is actually red meat. And I
think you've already know why because
I've already talked about it. On that
note, there's a lot more you need to
know about your digestive system. And I
created this very detailed video that
can greatly help you and I put it up
right here. Check it out.
