What if there was a recovery method that
has been used for over 2,000 years? It's
not a pill. It's not a gadget. It's
currently used by the elite Olympic
athletes where you actually get to tap
into the core of your capacity to
recover. Before we get into that, let me
first answer the question between cold
and hot showers. What is better for
recovery? Most people think it's the
cold shower because when you apply cold,
you're going to reduce inflammation. How
many times have we been told to put ice
on an injury? But exercise is not the
same as being injured. You're stressing
the body out and you're breaking certain
things down for the purpose of your body
adapting and recovering and building
things back up. When you add cold
therapy and you decrease inflammation,
you are actually slowing down the
benefits of exercise. Believe it or not,
we actually want that inflammation to be
there. Now, there's some exceptions to
this. If you overtrain or if you have
swelling, well, then you need cold. Or
if you actually have pain, well, cold's
going to be better. But cold therapy has
other benefits. It can greatly stimulate
your cognitive function and benefits for
your immune system. Now, when we add a
hot shower, we're getting a different
effect. We're getting more muscle
relaxation, more blood flow, more
oxygen. We're relaxing the
parasympathetic nervous system. It's
been known to increase sleep quality by
20% and even extend another 20 to 30
minutes of sleep. If we compare both of
them, heat to cold, it's going to be the
heat that's going to give you a little
more benefits to recover from exercise.
Now, if you add them both as a contrast
therapy, cold and then hot, that would
be even better because we're creating a
vaso constriction and a vasoddilation.
So, we get more blood flow. And before I
get into the mindblowing recovery
technique, I first need to tell you a
few other recovery things that you can
add to the list. The sauna and then cold
immersion. It's just more intense.
Another one is using the foam roller. 10
minutes after exercise can greatly
improve your recovery. They also
compared getting 8 hours of sleep versus
getting 6 hours of sleep after exercise.
And there was 20% more recovery when you
get 8 hours. If you ever get your DNA
tested, the company that I have been
using recently is called 3x4 community.
They look at what type of exercise you
should be doing for your DNA and cross
reference that with how you recover.
Now, let's get into something very cool.
Something that can actually give you so
much exercise repair and it's actually
very, very simple. It doesn't require
even any exercise at all. You ready for
this? Intermittent hypoxic training. So,
it's kind of similar to intermittent
fasting where you're doing a short-term
starvation and then you eat, right? But
guess what? Intermittent hypoxic
training. You're restricting your oxygen
going into your lungs. You can buy an
air restriction mask. You can even hold
your breath. It actually has effects
that mimic endurance exercise. Without
exercise, you actually mimic a high
altitude environment. It'll strengthen
your metabolism as well as enhancing the
growth of your muscles and at the same
time decreasing inflammation. It's one
of the most powerful things to speed up
recovery. And top elite athletes do this
all over the world to get the unfair
advantage of being able to have more
recovery. Unlike cold therapy that gets
rid of inflammation, this therapy
balances inflammation. This is why the
Kenyon long-distance runners always win
because they live and train in high
altitudes. And on top of all these great
benefits, you're also increasing growth
hormone. That's a fat burning hormone.
That's an anti-aging hormone. And that's
a hormone that can actually help your
muscles grow. What are you doing to
create this hypoxic state? One way is to
buy one of those airrestrictive masks.
And typically when you breathe air,
you're getting like 21% oxygen. But when
we add the mask, it'll bring it down to
let's say 18%
oxygen. Also, if you don't have the
mask, there's other things that you can
do as well that don't require any
equipment at all. You can basically take
a deep breath in, exhale all of it out,
and hold your breath for 30 to 60
seconds by going through that cycle and
breathing for a minute and going back
and forth 6 to eight cycles after your
exercise. That would be a valid form of
hypoxic training. So, a lot of people
ask me, "What supplements do I
recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not
biased of my own highquality supplement
line, but if you go to Amazon and type
Dr. Berg supplements, you'll find more
information. But then here's the big
question. Should you do this type of
training while you're working out or
when you're done working out, post
exercise? You want to do this hypoxic
training right when you're working out?
This will amplify the signals to the
muscles to grow. Let's say, for example,
your goal is not necessarily muscle
growth. It's going to be recovery or
maybe you want more endurance. Then you
would want to do this hypoxic training
after the exercise. That would mean just
putting on this mask for 5 minutes.
Okay. Breathing through it. It's
restricting your air and then taking it
off for 5 minutes and breathing normally
and then putting it back on with a cycle
of six. So, you're doing it six
different times. And this is after the
workout. And of course, because we're
dealing with something that can affect
your health, you want to check with your
doctor before doing this because I don't
want someone with a bad heart to do this
and then pass out. Now, let's say, for
example, your goal is to improve an
injury. then you would do hypoxic
training while you exercise, but keep
the intensity low. Another thing to
enhance this is to make sure you're
having enough magnesium because
magnesium also increases ATP. Another
thing that can enhance this is getting
infrared. 50% of the sun is infrared. So
just being out in the sun can greatly
help you as well. When someone has
cancer, they don't want to be doing the
therapy because they already have
hypoxia. Inside that tumor, there's a
hypoxic state. There's a lack of oxygen.
It just turns up the dial on cancer.
When you have inflammation, you also
have hypoxia because in inflammation,
there's not a lot of oxygen. In fact,
cancer grows into areas of inflammation.
So, the antidote to that is a lot of
exercise. Encounter some of the things
that happen in a hypoxic state in
cancer. So it'd be beneficial to take
something like corsetin, curcumin, green
tea, bourberine, sulfurophane, and
intermittent fasting. All right, thank
you so much for watching. I will see you
in the next video.
