Today, we're going to reveal the
greatest health scam in history, and
it's still going on right now. What
should dietary food guidelines be? What
food is truly healthy? And what about
vaccines? Are they safe? Are they
effective? And what about chemicals? Are
they generally recognized as being safe?
There is something at the core of this
problem that is so obvious, it's nearly
invisible. Today, I'm going to give you
a lot of awareness on this topic. Now I
think you know that the number one
factor involved with chronic disease is
food, right? But the big question is
what do you mean by food? Did you
realize that there's actually two
definitions of food? There's a
biological definition and then there's a
legal definition. This is the legal
definition of food that was established
in 1938 by the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act. articles used for
components of any such articles, as long
as they're labeled and packaged
correctly, it's food. Now, what the heck
did that mean? It basically is just
gibberish. It's defining food as food.
It makes no sense. But this legal
loophole definition of food is not the
real biological definition of food,
which is this. That which is eaten to
sustain life, promote the repair and
growth of tissues. Nourishment. Do you
actually see what's omitted in the legal
definition?
Like the biological reason why we eat
food, to nourish our bodies. This is how
the big food industries have won even
before any debates on the topic of food.
you can basically make poison food if
you package it correctly. So, it's been
really hard to do the guidelines and
figure out what's healthy, what's not.
So industry has done something
brilliant, not ethical but super smart
because from this one misdef
companies created that has literally
been selling what I think is poisonous
food and normalizing it as food. I mean,
no one in the right mind, if they really
understood what's in junk food, would
eat it. But it's been normalized and
it's been legalized and everyone does
it, so it must be okay. I mean, just
think about this for a second. If I were
to ask you, is 100% of the food that
people eat actually food? You would
probably say no. But it is food
according to the legal definition. But
here's another question. Can you create
health on ultrarocessed food? The answer
is no. Why not? Because it's not
sustainable. It doesn't repair the body.
You cannot exist very long in alter
processed food because it is at the core
of chronic disease. So this one little
tiny misdefinition has camouflaged
the root cause of chronic disease
because now we don't really see the
cause and effect relationship. Don't
worry, it gets worse. What they then did
is make healthy food actually junk.
looking at food just as calorie fuel,
equating sugar water with a steak.
They're both the same. They're just made
out of calories. As long as you do a
balanced diet, you're going to be fine.
Balance between what? Real food or fake
food, like nourishment or poison. This
completely gives food no responsibility
in the effects that it creates. This was
actually established in 1980. At the
time, they were trying to make breakfast
cereal and sugar okay and normalize. So
they had to again make all these
calories equal in importance and of
course that was adapted by the
dietitians in the US and in fact this is
taught in their curriculum. Not only
have they redefined junk as food they
also inverted it and made food junk as
in red meat, saturated fats, salt. All
these things were demonized as junk food
or very dangerous or unhealthy. That's
only the tip of the iceberg. Okay, this
actually gets deeper. Let's take this
additional word called drug. What is the
definition of the word drug? Anything
intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or
prevent a disease. That's the definition
of a drug. If broccoli prevents any
disease or health problem, it's now
classified as a drug and it's regulated
by the FDA. In fact, the FDA acts as a
protection arm of big pharma because if
anything gets close to their monopoly,
then they will go after them. Especially
when you get into supplements and food
and things like that, and even if it's
backed up by research and science, it
doesn't matter. Whoever owns the
definitions owns reality. Then we get to
vaccines. Let's talk about that. That
was also redefined. Stimulating the
immune system to produce immunity to a
disease and protect that person from a
disease. Now, let's talk about the
redefinition. Okay. A preparation used
to stimulate the body's immune response
against diseases.
Did you notice the omission? they
removed to produce immunity. So now the
legal definition of a vaccine doesn't
have to produce immunity. It doesn't
have to make you immune. All it has to
do is stimulate an immune response.
Fascinating. So now when we're talking
about vaccines being effective, well,
according to the definition, they're
effective. They create an immune
response. So when you change the
definition, you win the war even before
the debate begins. But this is why RFK
Jr. is such a threat to these various
industries because he is hitting them at
the very foundation of this
long-standing business model that keeps
everything held together, which showed
that ultrarocessed food calories are one
of the big primary drivers of chronic
disease for kids. But guess what?
There's actually no legal definition of
ultrarocessed foods. So this gives
industry another advantage of pretty
much making whatever they want. And this
is why RFK right now is establishing a
definition for ultrarocessed food
calories. But one of the things I would
personally love to see is to redefine
food as the biological definition. And I
would also force industry to do their
own research, like real research, to
prove that it nourished people, that it
helped repair tissue, it helped growth.
But again, to figure that out, you'd
have to first define what food is. Or
another option, plan B, would be to have
the food companies put warning labels
just like they do with tobacco. And why
can't we classify it as an addictive
substance? There's a couple other
definitions I want to chat about. Number
one is disease. So, right now they have
really broadened the definition of
diseases to include even risk factors as
disease. Osteopenia is a disease. It
used to be like a pre- osteoporosis
state, but now it's a disease. And the
scam with this is that you can do your
yearly screenings to pick up these pre-
disease states and get you on medication
right away. It's just an opportunity to
put more people on drugs. I mean, even
like the word health, I don't know if
you've ever looked this up. This was
also changed by the World Health
Organization. Complete physical, mental,
and social well-being, not merely the
absence of disease. This creates a huge
demand for more drugs because no one
will fit that definition of health. What
health should be defined as is the
capacity of adapting and repairing
physically, mentally, and socially.
That's a much better definition. And
unfortunately, there's all these new
initiatives that are coming out that are
vaguely defining food. I think this is
the Trojan horse that just brings in
this definition and redefineses what
health is. But of course, if you look at
those meals, they're industrial
calories. They're industrial foods.
They're ultrarocessed food calories.
They want the insurance to pay for it. I
mean, to have your insurance pay for
ultrarocessed foods is just another way
of getting it funding. But I don't know
if you know this, but these subsidies,
which are taxpayer dollars spent to help
farmers get through hard times and help
subsidize farmers to have a stable
market, have turned into something
completely different. Onethird of the
subsidies are spent now on fuel like
ethanol from corn. And the great
majority of these subsidies, billions of
dollars, go to the top 10% of farmers,
the very wealthy industrial farmers, not
the small farmers producing real foods.
And so if you take like a soda, right,
that cost a dollar, how much does a corn
syrup actually cost in that can? Like
two cents. So the only people that
benefit is Big Food. And on top of that,
you probably don't know this, but you
also pay 60% of the farmer's insurance
crop premiums. That's right. You pay for
the insurance, too, to make sure that
this whole thing is completely stable.
And if something happens, the farmer
still gets paid. Is it the small farmer?
No, it's the large farmers. And
unfortunately, some of the big a
industries actually are tied in and
control the insurance industry as well.
Yet, there's one last initiative I'm
going to talk about, and this is the
planetary health diet. Sounds pretty
nice on the outside, but when you look a
little deeper, this is just about
pushing the new initiatives on labs
grown meat, plant-based alternatives,
get rid of animal meat, the type of
calories that can really create health.
They want to eliminate that and they
want to replace that with more soy
protein. So when we're talking about
sustainability, they'll also bring up
this point of, well, if we don't
subsidize these foods, people are going
to starve to death. Instead of
subsidizing these industrial crops, why
don't we just make a simple change and
switch these subsidies to real food
based on the biological definition of
food? And that way we support the
farmers who really care about your food
and make that more affordable. Why are
we rewarding the junk food industry to
give us more chronic disease? Center on
the topic of food and we're talking
about the true biological definition. I
think it's super important for you to
understand what that actually means in
actual foods. And for that information,
you need to watch this video right here.
Check it out.
