When you have blackheads, white heads,
acne, pulling them out with a instrument
or tweezers or using manual pressure to
pinch your skin comes with a package. I
don't recommend you doing this. This
could actually be dangerous to your
skin. I did this the wrong way and I put
a lot of scarring on my face. What are
those little structures that bring the
oil to the surface of your skin? The
root cause of a blackhead, a white head,
acne are all coming from the same thing.
The solution I'm going to talk about is
way better than the topical creams that
people are using for these issues. It's
just treating the symptom. We're not
fixing the cause. When we're dealing
with any skin problems, it's so
important to identify the real problem
before we even get to a solution. If you
look up blackheads, white heads, it'll
list things like bacterial infection.
You have too many dead skin cells. The
difference between a white head and a
blackhead. When you have a blackhead,
the oil inside the pore is more exposed
to oxygen and it's oxidizing like an
apple would turn brown versus a white
head, which is something that's not
exposed to oxygen. When we're talking
about pus, we're mainly talking about
oil. One big confusion of the actual
problem is thinking that the person is
just producing too much oil and that's
what's causing this whole problem. Some
of these topical creams do work at least
temporarily. I'm also talking about
another cream called anado extract which
is loaded with a very special type of
vitamin E which does help control the
oil to some degree. One of the big
things that I want to share with you is
that a lot of people actually are
solving the wrong problem. That is
actually not true. It's not the excess
oil production. The real problem is
this. That little gland is producing
thicker, stickier oil that doesn't flow
like normal oil. What's behind that?
What causes this sticky oil? There are
five causes. The fifth cause is the most
common. I just want to run through all
of them so you know what they all are
because they all relate to what we're
going to do about it. The first thing is
hormones. We know in puberty your
androgens, including testosterone, are
going to be a little bit too high. That
produces a high level of a certain type
of testosterone called DHT. DHT makes
your oil into like a glue sticky thick
substance. Number two, the other hormone
involved in this is insulin. Having too
much insulin will then raise your
androgen levels. You know that insulin
that's triggered by carbohydrates,
sugars, starches. Too much insulin will
also block number three, which is a zinc
deficiency. When you're eating a lot of
refined carbs and sugar, you're
depleting your zinc. Zinc is crucial in
regulating the amount of oil that that
gland produces. And if you're deficient
in zinc, not only will you produce too
much oil, that oil will be thicker.
it'll be stickier. Zinc is also needed
to prevent the excess amount of that
powerful testosterone called DHT. Can
you see how this relates? It's important
to know all these pieces to this puzzle
because let's go to number four. And
this is an vitamin A deficiency. When
you're deficient in vitamin A, you get
very sticky, thick oil, and it plugs
everything up. And by the way, you need
zinc to allow vitamin A to work. They
both work together. This last thing,
number five, is the most important thing
you need to know. And this is based on
the fact that the oil in your skin is
mostly an unsaturated fat. H why is that
so significant? Because other
unsaturated fats that you consume make
up that oil. Seed oils are highly
processed. When you consume them, they
start making up the oil in your skin.
Now, we don't have something natural. We
have something very highly
pro-inflammatory. All that seed oil will
build up in your liver and prevent you
from making enough bile to be able to
even absorb fats soluble vitamins like
vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E, vitamin
K. You need a healthy liver to get
enough vitamin A for your body to
actually have good skin. We're dealing
with an industrial oil that should never
be in our diet. Unfortunately, these
seed oils will stay in your body for
literally a year and a half to up to two
years. So, you're going to have to avoid
seed oils for a good amount of time.
What type of foods are creating this
problem? Well, ultrarocessed foods are
creating this problem because what's in
an ultrarocessed food? Refined sugars
and we have refined starches. And I
don't know if you know this, but the
more refined sugar you eat, the more
refined starch you eat, the more you
deplete yourself of zinc. And all these
processed ingredients destroy the liver
which actually prevents you from even
using vitamin A in the first place. And
on top of all that, the sugar, the
starch will really jack up your insulin
levels as well as the seed oils will
also create insulin resistance, which
will then cause your body to make more
insulin. Your skin is getting hit from
every angle. Let's look at the opposite
of that. What should we be eating to
keep our androgens low, our insulin low,
to have enough zinc, to have enough
vitamin A, low carbohydrate? Okay, we
don't want any sugar or starch. Your
skin's going to start to heal. In
addition to reducing the seed oils,
there's other foods that are high in
omega6 fatty acids as well. And that
would also be animals that are fed
grains, like chicken. The eggs from
chicken could potentially make things
worse. And even pigs that are fed grain.
And this is why I'm going to recommend
consuming grass-fed beef, lamb, wild
caught, fish, sardines, shellfish, which
is high in zinc. And by the way, red
meat is loaded with zinc. But you can
get your vitamin A from grass-fed butter
as well as from grass-fed beef liver.
And cod liver oil is loaded with vitamin
A. This simple switch from avoiding
these junk foods and eating these
healthy foods will get at the root of
your skin problems in the fastest way
possible without having to cope and
treat the symptom any more. Thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
