These are my top seven health tips based
on science. Most doctors ignore these.
This first risk factor is equivalent to
smoking. Not just one cigarette a day,
15 cigarettes every single day. Can you
guess what it is? Loneliness. That is a
major stress on our bodies. Of course,
there's different levels of loneliness.
You have a very severe level where you
just lost a loved one, which is going to
make you very lonely. Social isolation.
It will keep the chronic elevation of
cortisol going on. A lot of inflammation
occurs with this. This is why they're at
risk for heart disease, stroke, and
definitely high blood pressure.
Loneliness also shuts down certain genes
to your immune system, making you more
vulnerable to developing cancer and
getting viral infections. Humans are
very social beings and when they don't
have that social aspect, all sorts of
health problems occur. What would be the
health tip that would come from that?
quality relationships at least three
that will lift you up is super
therapeutic where you have a regular
social engagement. Another thing to do
is volunteer and help some group or some
person because it's very therapeutic to
help another. Let's go to number two,
lack of sleep. Getting less than 5 hours
of sleep will increase your risk for
early death by 30%. It two to threexes
the risk of gaining weight, craving
foods, developing diabetes. It was
revealed that there's brain aging with
people that don't sleep. What's the tip
on that one? Get at least 7 hours of
sleep. Let's get to number three.
Refined sugar. That would be
maltodextrin, modified food starch,
modified corn starch, wheat flour, rice
flour. That's all hidden sugar. It's one
of the key drivers for developing liver
fat and obesity and Alzheimer's. One of
the biggest things that this refined
sugar does and refined starch is making
you old really quick and keeping your
body inflamed. What do you think the
best tip to counter that would be? Low
carb ketogenic diet. There's a really
cool app that I came up with. It's
called Dr. Berg Junk Food Meter. It's a
free app if you have an Apple or an
Android phone that allows you to quickly
scan any food, any barcode, or even the
picture of the label and focus in on the
key three ingredients in most junk
foods. Sugars, starches, and seed oils.
Most people have no idea how much of
those three ingredients that they're
consuming in the refrigerator, in their
pantry. Let me show you what I'm talking
about before we get to number four. All
you have to do is download it. It's
free. pull up a food, hover over the
barcode, and start scanning. And it
quickly scans and shows you how much
starch, seed oil, and sugar. You can see
in this one, there's 19 grams of sugar
in this yogurt. Crazy amounts. And
there's some starch as well. Let's pick
another food. Pop-Tart. Holy macro. Look
it. You have starch, 39 g, got some seed
oils in there, and you got sugar in
there. You can see the junk food score
at the top is a 10, which means it's
really, really bad. It tells you what
kind of ingredients that we're reading.
Let's do another food. Hot dog. This one
has starch. So, there's hidden starch.
What kind of starch? They're putting
corn syrup in there and modified food
starch. Not too healthy. Can you take a
while to guess what number four is?
Industrial seed oils. I'm talking about
what most people fry their food in.
They're going to create a lot of
inflammation in the body because seed
oils are an unsaturated fat, which means
they're very vulnerable to oxygen, heat,
and light. How is it that you can keep
these oils right in your cupboard
without having to refrigerate them to
keep them shelf stable? Because it
builds up over time. It's a slow poison.
The health tip based on that is to start
cooking with healthy oils. extra virgin
olive oil, grass-fed butter, talo, lard.
Only use those oils in your food as well
as cooking things. This next risk
factor, visceral fat, the fat around the
organs, really will tell you a lot about
how long you're going to live or if
you're going to have a health problem.
You can literally look down at your
belly right now. If it sticks out, we
know you have not just visceral fat, you
have liver fat, too. It's one of the
best indicators of heart disease. This
is the heart right here and this is the
epicardial fat. It goes directly into
the coronary arteries. Did you realize
that even children that are four years
old are starting to get visceral fat.
So, it's not just happening as we get
older. There's no drug or no diagnosis
code that can get rid of it. The only
way to get rid of it is through your
lifestyle changes. The biggest top two
things to do are intermittent fasting
and lowering your carbohydrates and
sugars. That's called a low carb diet or
the ketogenic diet. Let's get to number
six. Constant eating or snacking. You're
just basically eating too much of the
wrong food and you're eating too many
meals. Not even talking about eating
candy bars. I'm talking about eating
anything. Chronic eating or snacking
completely and utterly shuts down the
self-cleaning of old damaged cells. Your
body fills up with dirty, damaged
tissue. You age a lot faster than you
should. For this tip, cutting out
snacking is a super valuable tip for
everyone. For most people, what I'm
going to recommend is a very simple tip.
Only eat when you're hungry and don't
eat when you're not. be super powerful
for anti-aging and to make you feel a
lot better. And the last factor that
creates a lot of problems has to do with
three specific nutrient deficiencies. A
magnesium deficiency. When you're
deficient, people tend to get high blood
pressure. They might get arrhythmias,
muscle cramps. What has magnesium? Leafy
greens, pumpkin seeds, or you could take
magnesium glycinate as a supplement.
Next nutrient is vitamin D. It said 40%
of people are deficient in vitamin D. I
think it's more like 90%. When you're
deficient vitamin D, you get early risk
of dying. You get a lot of inflammation.
You get depressed. You need at least
10,000 IUs of vitamin D3 every single
day. This third nutrient is going to
surprise you. And it's choline. A lack
of choline will cause the fatty liver.
You could have problems with memory and
cognitive function. Normally, our bodies
need about 550 milligrams per day of
choline. The best source of choline is
egg yolks and liver. Now that you know
the top seven tips to better your
health, there's a twist. None of this
will really work unless you know the one
most important food that will create
health. Trust me, you're going to be
shocked. This is the video that you
should watch right now. Click it.
