Hello, Dr. Bur here and today we're
going to talk about the number one
vitamin D danger that you absolutely
positively must know more about. A lot
of the research that I'm talking about
is based on Dr. Core from Brazil who
studied autoimmune diseases for quite
some time and he has the cobra protocol
where he uses a lot of vitamin D. for
some people could range between 60,000
IUs per day up to 200,000 IUs of vitamin
D3 every day to penetrate through this
resistance and to create the effect to
put these autoimmune conditions back in
remission. And his success level is like
over 90%. If you look at your vitamin D
levels and you're assuming like, oh
yeah, my levels are fine because my
blood levels are fine. Don't assume
that's really what's going on deeper in
the cells. There is some better ways to
know if vitamin D is working. I am going
to get to that. But the blood level only
gives you a little bit of information.
Is it dangerous to take too much vitamin
D? It can be. Uh especially with
hypercalcemia, too much calcium in your
blood, which can lead to kidney stones.
On the flip side, what are the dangers
of not having enough vitamin D3? that
makes you more susceptible to autoimmune
diseases. Autoimmune diseases are the
number one health problem on planet
Earth right now. Talking about MS,
Graves, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis,
type 1 diabetes, vitiligo, which is a
skin problem, and Hashimoto's is at the
top of the list. That is a hypothyroid
condition. Your own body is attacking
itself. That part of the immune system
is heavily influenced by the amount of
vitamin D that you have in your body,
actually in your cells. Most of the
research that doctors have studied about
vitamin D is completely outdated, like a
100 years old. Fairly recently on the
time schedule of things, we found out
that vitamin D is involved in over 2500
genes. Okay, that's a lot of different
genes and a lot of different functions.
And it's especially intimately involved
in every part of your immune system. So
the amount of vitamin D that you need
for the immune system to keep that
maintained is between 8,000 and 10,000
IUs. Next one is vitamin D resistance.
Just when you thought it was bad, it
gets a little bit worse. Most people
cannot get enough vitamin D from the sun
or the food like they should. There's
some resistance to this layer. The
primary area is through the genetics.
You can look through your DNA and you
can actually see if there's a problem
with a certain gene that puts you at
risk for a very specific autoimmune
disease. A lot of people genetically are
not getting this vitamin D. On top of
the other issue of low RDAs, you also
have other things that can affect the
absorption of vitamin D. low magnesium,
low zinc, low vitamin K2, and also
certain viruses downgrade your vitamin D
receptors. And now you don't have the
defenses anymore. It can then go around
the body and do its thing without being
attacked by your immune system. Let's
just take you and put you in stone age.
You need to protect yourself against
parasites, bacteria, viruses, a lot more
than you would now because you're out
there in the wild and you're probably
drinking the water. Your immune system
had to develop to deal with all this
stuff. You also were getting a lot of
sun, way more sun than you get now. So,
the body had to regulate this amount of
UV radiation by kind of shutting down
some of the genes so you didn't get too
much. Back in the stone age, there was a
purpose of survival. Let's move you to
present time to modern time right now.
You probably are not drinking out of
your uh local pond down the street. But
I'll guarantee you're not getting near
the amount of sun that you got way back
in the day, which means you're not
getting near the amount of vitamin D you
used to get. The way that you can
correct these inflammatory genes is to
beef up your vitamin D levels. There's
several things that you can do to lessen
this problem. To take more magnesium,
take vitamin K2, take zinc, and also you
can limit your amount of calcium.
Cutting out the dairy right there,
you're going to put the person in a
protection mode against hypercalcemia if
you just do that. So, there are all
sorts of ways to prevent the side
effects or the toxic effect of vitamin
D. I am going to put a link down below
of several doctors that kind of
specialize in this if you wanted to work
with someone to really do the protocol
if you have some serious autoimmune
disease that you need help with. You can
get a consultation from a doctor who's
trained from Dr. Core. But, I at least
want to give you the data of what
they're going to be doing. Since we're
talking about Dr. Quamre, I did an
amazing interview with him personally.
And I put it up right here. Watch it
right now. I think you're going to love
it.
