Today we're going to talk about how to
tone your inner thighs. If we just take
a look at subcutaneous fat, that's the
superficial fat right underneath the
skin. That actually is a healthy fat.
It's used as a safe storage of fat. And
by the way, fat typically is potential
energy. It's used to help us survive. So
you have a subcutaneous or superficial
fat. Then you have something called
visceral fat. That's the fat around the
organs. It's usually in the belly. So,
if you look down at your shoes and you
can't see your shoes, chances are you
have visceral fat. And that is not a
good type of fat. That's an inflammatory
fat. It's a very unhealthy type of fat
because the fat cell is no longer taking
in fat because it's damaged with
something called insulin resistance.
Then it gets stored around the organs
and also inside certain organs. Number
three, we have liver fat. It's fat
inside the liver. This fat, by the way,
is the easiest to get rid of. Super fast
to reverse this in days or weeks. But
the fat around your thighs is what we're
going to focus on. It's not only very
different, it's the most difficult to
get rid of. The fat is not just
underneath the skin superficially. The
fat is inside the muscle fibers itself.
very similar to if you've ever seen Wagu
beef where you have this marbled fat.
That's what's happening in the thighs.
And with Wagu beef, people buy it
because it's delicious and it's very
tender. It's tender because there's not
much collagen in there. And so that's
not really a healthy state when you
don't have collagen. So the cows that
they raise to develop this muscle have
certain genetics that have a tendency to
become like this and they have to
overfeed them and not give them much
activity. And so if we compare and
contrast in this situation with the
thighs and there's also a severe loss of
muscle because that fat is overtaking
the space of the muscle and kind of
suffocating it with fibrous scar tissue.
If we look at an advanced case of this,
especially when people get older, what
that person has been dealing with is a
slow gradual loss of muscle with the
replacement of fat and scar tissue. And
with that comes a major loss of the stem
cells that are supposed to be making the
muscle cells.
And of course, we're going to get less
contractions.
We're going to get less ATP energy.
We're going to get more insulin
resistance. When you have insulin
resistance in the muscle, the muscle
can't really get the fuel anymore. We
have a situation where the fat around
the muscle is not in a healthy state.
It's a very abnormal type of fat around
the muscle. And for those of you that
want to know the the term for that, the
medical term, it's called myio
stattosis, which is fat outside the fat
cell and it's deep inside the muscle
structure. And we can call that
intramuscle
fat. Now that you know what it is, let's
talk about a couple other unique things.
Okay? The fat that is next to your
muscle must be burned locally. Now, if
you take a look at liver fat, the liver
can actually have that fat transported
into another part of the body where it's
burned as energy, but the muscles can't
do that. So all the fat around the
muscles must be burned by the muscle
itself. But the problem is the machine
that's supposed to burn that fuel is
broken. So we have this massive fuel
reserve around the muscle that just
can't be burnt because we don't have
enough machine or muscle to burn that
fuel. Now I'm going to show you a step
by step on how to recover that and how
to fix that. But you just need to know
that when you start to fix it, you
probably will not see much weight loss.
And the problem with that is most people
if they don't see weight loss, they will
get frustrated really quick and they
will give up. And unfortunately, that's
a really big mistake because as you
start to reverse this process, you won't
see any weight loss. You won't see any
visible change at all because all that
change is happening deep in the cells of
the muscle, which you're not necessarily
going to do an MRI or CAT scan to see
it, but that has to heal before you
start seeing weight loss and any visible
changes. So, now let's dive into how to
fix this. The goal should be repair
damaged muscle cells. If you notice, I
didn't say lose weight because I really
want you to differentiate losing weight
versus fixing the muscle cells. You
actually don't want to lose weight
because the real problem is not in the
weight gain. It's in the damaged machine
that helps you burn the fat. It's kind
of like you're in your car and you're
trying to arrive somewhere, but you have
to realize you have to fix the engine
first. Right now, I'm going to reference
just one study on this topic just to be
very realistic and not to set you up for
any expectations and then have you get
frustrated. In a 12week study of what
I'm going to tell you, there was
actually no weight loss, okay? But they
did reduce muscle loss by 15%. Now,
right off the bat, you're going to be
like, "Oh my god, that's why even try?
It's like that's so insignificant."
Again, let me remind you, we have to fix
the machine. We have to fix the muscle.
The muscle is literally dying. There's
not a lot of muscle left. So, we have to
fix that. In other words, I want you to
think long term. And instead of weighing
yourself on the scale every week, I'm
going to recommend you focus on
strength, okay? Because that's one
indicator that is going to happen a lot
sooner. And that is your new measurement
of improvement. Do you see that you're
stronger over a period of time? That
means it's working because you're
getting more muscles. And another
indicator that you should look for is
your appetite and your hunger should go
down because this means that you're
reversing your fuel from just burning
sugar to burning your own atapost fat
tissue. And when you burn this, you
generate ketones and you basically lose
your appetite. You lose your hunger,
which is an indication that you're
burning fat. But again, for the third
time, I'm going to re-emphasize this.
Our goal is to fix the muscles to help
you grow muscles because the more muscle
that you have, the faster and easier it
is going to be to burn off the fat
around the muscles, but you haven't been
able to because you haven't had enough
muscle to be able to take care of that
fat to utilize that fat as energy. So
the underlying first root cause of this
whole thing is inactivity,
having a sedentary life, not exercising,
not being mobile enough. So that's how
it starts. But then other things develop
on top of that insulin resistance
probably because of the diet, but also
the more fat you have in your body, the
more that can actually cause insulin
resistance as well. And then the
decrease in mitochondria. That's your
energy factories because we're going to
have this right here. And this destroys
mitochondria. And then inflammation
happens and then you get scar tissue.
And on top of that, if you add aging and
then you end up with this ratio of high
fat, low muscle in the thighs. Here's
what you're going to do. Number one,
you're going to start exercising,
but you're going to do a very specific
type of exercise called eentric
exercises. These exercises are slow and
you're lengthening the muscle. If I were
to hold myself on a chin-up bar, I would
hold it and then I would slowly let
myself down and elongate the arm. Now,
with the legs, what you're going to do
in an eentric move is you're going to
without any weight at all, you're going
to do a squat, very controlled
elongation of a muscle. And the reason
why I'm going to recommend you to do
this is because it's the strongest
stimulus of muscle activation. So we can
really start building these muscles up
by doing this type of exercise. And
depending on your strength, you might
have to have some type of assistance to
get yourself back up. So maybe it's a
elastic band where you actually hold on
to something where you let yourself down
and you pull yourself back up. Or maybe
it's an end of a chair where you're
coming down and you can pull yourself
up. The point is you're going to start
with those exercises. Even walking
slowly down a hill is an eccentric type
exercise which is very therapeutic and
it's not always that easy but it's going
to create the strongest stimulus to get
the ball rolling. Now when I go through
all these exercises, one really
important thing is especially when you
get started is that you're going to be
really sore the next day or the next two
days. And I really want you to give your
body enough rest between these exercises
so you don't overtrain. So I'm just
pointing it out because if you do this
every single day, you're not going to
recover. The recovery or the rebuilding
of the muscles occurs in those days off
or when you're sleeping. But the eentric
exercises are going to be most important
to stimulate the stem cells and the
mitochondria. Okay, that's number one.
Number two is you're going to do a lot
of walking. If you're at work or
something, take the stairs. Walk as much
as you can. And also, you want to be
walking after meals, even if it's five
minutes, but you want to be walking off
that sugar and keep those muscles using
fuel in your lower body. Now, the other
thing, too, is I'm going to recommend
you only do two meals per day, a lunch
and dinner, or even better yet, one meal
a day, early dinner. That would be the
ideal situation
because that way you'll have enough
hours of fasting to actually have many,
many other benefits that are going to
speed this process up because when you
fast, you turn on pretty much every
survival gene that you have. It's super
therapeutic. And when you're fasting,
your muscles in your thigh need fuel,
and they're going to go after the fat
around the muscles or inside the
muscles. And especially if you're
increasing the demand of the fuel by
walking. So you want to be walking after
a meal and even doing a walk when you're
fasting. Okay? That way we can create
this vacuum and kind of suck the fat
right out of it. And then you're going
to start to graduate into doing little
sprints or highintensity interval
training depending on your age, your
fitness level. And of course, if you're
a little bit older or more fragile,
you're not going to be doing this. But
if you can do this, I recommend it
because this is a highintensity interval
training activity because you're only
doing a very short burst of high
intensity. It's the high intensity that
activates these muscle cells, right?
This is another thing that you should
know. And the more intense load that you
can put that muscle under, the better
the response. You're sending a signal to
that muscle saying, "You got to get
bigger fast because we have to
compensate." And then the muscles start
reacting to that and they start growing
and they get bigger and bigger. Now
you're getting a bigger machine to burn
the fat around your thigh muscles. When
you're doing sprinting or highintensity
interval training, whether it's burpees
or certain types of squats, you're using
your large muscles, and that's what you
want to do. I'm talking about the
glutius maximus, your butt muscle, your
thigh muscle, your hamstrings. That's
what you want to focus on.
Step-ups are really good workouts and I
will put some links down below or even
walking lunges are awesome. Okay, and
these are things that you should do two
to three times per week depending on
where you are in your program and how
much soreness that you experience. We
already talked a little bit about this.
Two meals, okay, a day or even one meal
would be better. And then low carb.
You're going to do low carb. I will put
a link down below of what you should
eat, but we don't want to be adding more
carbs in here because all those carbs
are going to be turning in to fat. Some
really key nutrients to support the
mitochondria that I would recommend that
you focus on maybe taking a supplement
or eating more foods high in these
nutrients. Magnesium because magnesium
feeds the motor in the mitochondria
directly. Vitamin D, the most important
vitamin for inflammation and also
helping you with your metabolism and the
mitochondria, and omega-3, which is very
important in reducing inflammation.
Number six, sleep is essential. If
you're not sleeping, you will not be
able to burn fat. Most of fat that
you're going to burn happens when you
sleep. And again, I'll re-emphasize
recovery needs to happen on the days
after you work out. You need to just do
some mild walking. Number seven,
periodic prolong fasting will greatly
help you, too. So maybe once every two
weeks, once every 3 weeks, you do a fast
for 48 hours or maybe even 72 hours.
That's when your muscles are going to
really use up that intracellular fat and
crank up the dial. And also, you're
going to be going through a condition
called autophagy, which is you're going
to recycle a lot of the scar tissue
that's in the leg muscles as well. And
in that stage, you might want to just do
some mild walking, not do the heavy
exercise when you're doing prolong
fasting because you'll benefit more. We
want to do a lot of cleaning of the
damaged proteins and we don't want to
activate the stress response when we're
fasting. Another thing you could do as a
cold plunge or maybe you can just do it
with a cold shower. When you add cold to
the lower legs, you can create a
condition where you're mobilizing a lot
more mitochondria activation because
your body is trying to maintain 98.6.
to do that it has to generate a
tremendous amount of heat. And so we're
not generating ATP anymore, the energy.
We're generating heat. So it's a way of
wasting a lot of energy as heat. And
this is what we want to do. We want to
use up a lot of this fat. It's much
easier to do these cold plunges just to
go down to your waist, not the whole
body. What we're doing is we're doing a
massive remodeling on the inside of your
leg muscles, deep inside your regrowing
muscles. And that does take time. It
could take months. It could even take a
couple years. But just realize your
measurement for improvement is going to
be strength, okay? Because you're going
to becoming stronger and stronger and
stronger. And that means it's working.
Now that you have this information,
there's another similar video I've done
on how to get rid of hip fat that you
should watch right here. Check it out
right now.
