Hey, Dr. Bur here again. Today, we're
going to talk about the seven visible
signs that you have hormonal imbalance.
And you could see these things very
easily when you look in the mirror. At
the end of this video, you're going to
be able to look across the room and
observe something and pretty much know
if that person has too much of a certain
hormone or not enough. Let's first start
out with the thyroid gland. Your thyroid
gland is like right here. It's like 2
and 12 in wide. The thyroid is a small
gland, but it controls your metabolism.
If these hormones are too high, your
eyes are actually going to start bulging
out. Your metabolism is going to be very
fast to the point where you're going to
lose a lot of weight. This is not a good
thing because it's going to be a very
unhealthy weight loss and you might see
a lot of sweating with a hyper thyroid
problem. On the flip side, if the
thyroid is not working enough, that's
called a hypothyroid condition. This is
going to cause more weight gain. And the
hair, you're going to see that the hair
is going to be thin. It's going to be
dry. 90% of hypothyroidism is a type of
thyroid problem that is related to the
immune system. It's called Hashimoto's.
It's an autoimmune condition where your
own body is creating antibodies against
your own thyroid, destroying it,
creating an underactive thyroid coming
from the immune system. A very important
thing about that condition is to avoid
gluten from grains. You need to take
more selenium. You can get enough
selenium from having one Brazil nut.
Selenium also improves the immune system
and so does vitamin D. So, you're going
to need high doses of vitamin D3 for
Hashimoto's. Let's move to number two,
which is androgens. One is testosterone
and the other is DHT.
If there's too much androgen, you're
going to get acne around your jawline,
around your back, and both men and
women. In women, their voice is deeper.
It's more facial hair. And they will
also start noticing receding in the top
part of their hair versus if men have
too much androgens, they'll start having
male pattern baldness. This is why it's
so important to avoid carbohydrates,
sugars, starches, and also not to eat so
frequently. On the flip side, if someone
doesn't have enough androgen, let's say
men, if they're low in testosterone,
they're going to get lowered amount of
muscle. Men will also lose hair on the
bottom part of their legs if they don't
have enough testosterone. The other
thing is to avoid plastics. So, you want
to get a really good water filter
because that's where most people get
their plastics from uh city water. Let's
move to number three, cortisol. Cortisol
is a stress hormone and if it goes too
high, you're going to get cortisol face,
like a round face. I used to have that.
If there's too much cortisol, you could
get like a buffalo hump on the back part
of your neck. You'll tend to gain weight
in your midsection. In females, a lot of
times you'll see exaggerated stretch
marks from too much cortisol. Cortisol
will age you. It makes your skin thin
and wrinkly. Number four is estrogen.
What happens when the estrogen goes
high? Your face will be puffy. You might
see spider veins in the legs, skin tags,
and something called melasma, which is
this pigmentation thing on your skin.
You might see little patches of a darker
complexion. But you can also see
estrogen dominance from someone on birth
control pills or estrogen replacement
therapy. What happens when your estrogen
goes down during menopause, for example?
The skin and collagen start to
disappear. This is why you start looking
older or you get wrinkles or the skin
looks thinner. You also have to realize
that estrogen comes from cholesterol.
So, if you're on something that lowers
cholesterol or you're on a low-fat diet,
that could be a major reason why your
estrogen also is excessively low. Number
five, growth hormone. Typically, if your
growth hormone declines too much, just
going to make you look older and it's
also going to affect your muscle. When
growth hormone goes down, we gain
weight, especially in the midsection. A
couple things to know about growth
hormone to increase it, it's the
intensity of the exercise. So, sprinting
or anything high intensity, short
duration. Also, keeping your carbs low
will help increase your growth hormone.
Also, sleeping more can help your growth
hormone because the majority of your
growth hormone occurs when you're
sleeping. This is another reason why
some people age more quickly. their
sleep is poor. If your sleep is poor,
you are going to look older. Number six,
progesterone. When progesterone goes up,
it's actually very very rare. Probably
have some mild fluid retention. A much
more common problem is when it goes to
low, which is super common. Those
symptoms would be a puffy face. The
person will look dull and tired and
sometimes have acne. Number seven,
insulin. What visual signs occur when
your insulin is too high? Well, number
one, you're going to have a midsection
that's going to stick out. You're going
to have belly fat that no matter what,
you can't get rid of it. Skin tags,
swollen eyes. If we shift gears to low
insulin, that's when you're actually
losing too much weight, but again, not
in a healthy way. You see this in a type
1 diabetic. Then we have an issue of
craving for carbs, being hungry all the
time. The big thing that triggers
insulin is sugar and starches as in
bread, pasta, cereal, crackers,
biscuits, waffles, pancakes, and also
just the frequency of meals. This is why
telling someone to consume a balanced
diet or this concept of everything in
moderation is the worst advice ever. Out
of all these hormonal imbalances, the
one that I see most commonly as a
problem is too much cortisol. how to
bring it down naturally and keep it
normal. So, watch this video right now.
