The number one blackhead remedy. Now,
every single blackhead on your face
right now is made from a very specific
type of fat. Not a bacteria. It's not
dirt. I did a video on blackheads years
ago. It got millions of views, but I
just stumbled on some new information
that's going to blow you away. In the
earlier video, I talked about something
called an androgen. That's a male
hormone. And when you have too many of
these, it increases the oil gland. And
then sometimes if there's too much oil,
it gets stuck in your pores, gets
clogged, and some of these pores are
opened, exposing that oil to oxygen,
which is then called oxidized oil.
Another term for that oil is sebum, and
it turns darker. Okay, that's a
blackhead. If there's a little covering
over it, that's a white head. But both
white heads and blackheads come from the
exact same mechanism and have the exact
same remedy that I'm going to get to.
Out of all the research they've done on
blackheads, there's one common fat that
shows up in a 100% of people, it's too
much of this pulmitic acid. So even
though it's called an acid, it's
actually a fat. It's a saturated fat.
It's the most common fat in your body.
It's also in palm oil. It's in butter.
It's in cheese. It's in processed food.
And your body makes it. It makes it out
of this thing called sugar. When you
consume too much sugar, your body then
converts the excess in the liver to this
right here. Now, what's normally
supposed to happen is this fat is
supposed to convert to another fat,
which I'm not going to get into the
details, but this fat is only in the
human skin, and it's a natural
antibiotic. It protects you from acne,
inflammation in that little oil gland.
So basically when you're talking about
acne, we're getting a problem with this
fat converting to this fat. There is
something that makes this conversion and
it's a certain enzyme. I'm not going to
get into the name of it, but in order
for this enzyme to work to make this
conversion to have everything work out
normal is you need enough zinc. So one
of the big causes of acne and especially
blackheads is a zinc deficiency. A zinc
deficiency is very very common and
blackheads are one of the best
biomarkers of how much zinc you have in
your body. So if you're getting a
blackhead, we know you're deficient in
zinc. Zinc also helps you regulate
androgens. But there's something else
that also blocks this enzyme. Too much
sugar. That's another thing. And also,
by the way, excess sugar depletes you of
zinc. Alcohol and junk foods will also
block this enzyme. But there's another
little piece of the puzzle that you need
to know about and it's vitamin A. Maybe
you've heard of Accutane before. This is
a medication. It's really a synthetic
version of vitamin A. One of the most
powerful things for acne. It gets rid of
acne so fast, but it comes with a
package. It creates a lot of side
effects. But what you should know is
vitamin A is the master controller of
the oil gland. But vitamin A does not
work without zinc. So there's a lot of
people that don't want to take Accutane
because of all the side effects, which I
agree with, but then they take vitamin
A, but without zinc, vitamin A doesn't
work. Now, one of the best sources of
vitamin A is liver. And not only does
the liver have a tremendous amount of
vitamin A, it's also loaded with zinc.
Personally, I cannot consume liver. I
don't like it. I wish I did like it, but
I will consume cod liver oil. That's a
really good source of vitamin A. But
there's something much bigger to this
story because when I talked about sugar
converting to a fat, some of you
watching might be shocked to know that,
wait a second, saturated fat can come
from a carbohydrate.
Yes, it's absolutely true. But not only
that, sugar in excess also causes a
fatty liver. So, it's not just this type
of fat here. You're making your liver
fatty when you consume excess
carbohydrates. And as the liver becomes
fatty because the liver is so loaded and
concentrated with vitamin A, you can
have a problem with vitamin A and you
can start having bad skin problems
because you have a fatty liver. So, a
lot of people ask me, "What supplements
do I recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not
biased of my own high-quality supplement
line, but if you go to Amazon and type
Dr. Ber supplements, you'll find more
information. Once the liver becomes so
saturated with fat, it starts to spill
over into other organs and even around
organs outside the fat cells and it just
starts invading the tissues. We call
that visceral fat. But one indicator of
metabolic disease is blackheads.
Blackheads are not a disease. It's just
a little red flag letting you know
there's a problem deeper in the body
because of this right here. You're
consuming too much excessive sugar. You
could actually have a fatty liver. You
could have visceral fat. All the zinc in
the world, all the vitamin A won't work.
You need both to get rid of the excess
sugar. I mean, think about as a
teenager, right? I had such bad acne and
I tried so many different creams and
lotions and pills and everything.
Nothing worked. Was I eating excess
sugar? Yes. It also increases insulin
which then increases androgens which
then increase the growth of the
sebaceous gland. It creates
inflammation. It creates all sorts of
issues. So the absolute best remedy for
this is to get rid of your sugar. Go on
a ketogenic diet. Do intermittent
fasting. Eat nutrient-dense foods. You
can get your zinc from red meat or
shellfish or actual liver. Get some cod
liver oil for the vitamin A and your
skin is going to start looking better
and better and better. To learn how to
do the healthy version of the ketogenic
diet, you need to watch this video to
get all the details right now. Check it
out.
