How to rid candida in 24 hours and make
sure it doesn't come back. The candida
treatment that most people are
prescribed is designed to fail. And I
can prove it with just one little piece
of information. The research shows that
once the candida has built this
protective shield inside your gut, it's
called a bofilm. It literally takes
1,000 times the normal dose of an
antifungal to penetrate this protective
bofilm to get to the candida. But once I
show you how it works, you'll be able to
crack it open and get to this candida
very A to B. But before I break this
whole thing down, I want to tell you the
single most powerful thing you can do
right now to start to dismantle this
bofoam is called sacroyces bulardi. And
they found that it produces these very
powerful enzymes that can literally go
into this protective barrier bofilm and
start to dismantle it. All right, the
first thing about candida, people think
it's just like a yeast. It's not. It's
actually something much more pathogenic.
The interesting thing about candida is
it can morph into different shapes and
different things. So you have phase one
where it's just like a round yeast. It's
pretty harmless. It lives in your body.
It doesn't bother you. It's part of the
normal microbiome. Everyone has it. It's
no big deal. But this can then turn into
the second version, which is like a
chain. And then from this chain, it goes
into the phase three, which is a
filament. And filaments are like roots
with barb wire. This morphed phase 3
candida can literally drill into your
intestinal wall. So the question is what
triggers going from this phase to this
phase? Well, in this phase you have
large numbers of these guys and you also
don't have very many defenses against
this. Okay? So it has to be the right
environment. And just so you know,
candida thrives in environments that are
very alkaline. Okay? Just make mental
note of that. We'll come back to it. So
the candida is very opportunistic. It
waits for the right time to come out and
beat you down. And at this stage,
they're building this bofilm protective
shield. So they're under the radar. They
can't be detected by your immune system
and they cannot be easily killed by
these antifungals. So this tends to be
the story for a lot of people that this
candida keeps coming back and might go
away. It might go into remission. It
keeps coming out month after month
depending on certain environments. Some
women get it every month because of the
estrogen spike, okay? Because estrogen
tends to create a different environment
or when they take birth control pills. I
almost didn't want to talk about it
because it's pretty extreme, but it's
not as common as what I'm talking about
here. But in 2025, it infected 7,000
people. So, I mean, I wouldn't call that
rare, but you should know about it
because it is a antimicrobial threat
stated by the CDC. Some of these strains
resist every single antifungal drug in
existence. Okay? Now, the bad thing
about this is the mortality rate is
between 30 and 60%. People die from
this, but it's mainly a hospital
superbug. One of the absolute worst
places to be when you're sick is in the
hospital. So, let's talk about the
environment that makes your body very
susceptible to pulling in this candida.
Number one, the big one, antibiotics.
Unfortunately, I have had so many
antibiotics in my life, like several
times a year growing up as a child from
sore throats and all sorts of
infections. Antibiotics kill bacteria.
It's the bacteria that keeps the fungus
and candida in check. So when you kill
the bacteria, you become susceptible to
developing a yeast infection, aka a
candida infection. You remember when I
said that candida lives in an alkaline
environment? Well, the byproduct of when
certain microbes eat fibers and other
things, they produce acids like butyric
acid and acetic acid and lactic acid.
Those acids create an environment where
this candida cannot grow that well. But
if you kill them with antibiotics, your
pH starts becoming more alkaline.
Unfortunately, 80% of all the
antibiotics in the US go to livestock.
So even if you don't take them, you
might be getting them indirectly. Number
two, sugar. Candida eat sugar. Now, you
can also get this sugar from consuming
refined starches as well, aka junk food,
because pretty much all junk food has
starch and sugar in it. But sugar
specifically is the food that candida
lives on. And the byproduct of this
sugar is ammonia. Now, I don't know if
you've ever experienced this, but some
people their breath smells like ammonia.
The ammonia is a survival thing because
ammonia is super alkaline. So the more
ammonia that it can release into your
body, it can live longer because now it
just changed the environment. And the
worst thing a person like that could do
is keep eating sugar. Number three is
stress. If a person is going through a
lot of stress, that alone will activate
cortisol and suppress the immune system
allowing the micro to survive better.
And also as a side note, candida has a
tendency to downgrade your vitamin D
receptors. So, if your vitamin D
receptors are downgraded, you're going
to have to take more. Probably 20 to
30,000 IUs to allow it to work because
fighting candida involves a strong
immune system. And without vitamin D, it
can't work. The next one is ant acids.
Again, if you reduce your stomach acid
and you make it more alkaline, you're
going to allow the candida to thrive.
ant acids, birth control pills, estrogen
from pregnancy, all create an
environment that makes you more
susceptible to candida. So, a lot of
people ask me, "What supplements do I
recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not
biased of my own high-quality supplement
line, but if you go to Amazon and type
Dr. Berg supplements, you'll find more
information. Now, let's talk about the
24-hour protocol. Okay, we have step one
right here. Starve it. Okay, stop
feeding it sugar and starch. You're
going to have to go on a ketogenic diet.
That includes eliminating alcohol,
grains, things that turn into sugar
quickly. Get rid of it because then
you're literally going to starve off the
candy that has nothing to live on. And
on top of that, I would do intermittent
fasting as well because again, you're
starving off the resources. Our bodies
can very easily thrive on fat, okay?
when we don't eat we can tap into our
fat supply but they can't so it's our
advantage all right number two we need
to crack the fortress I've already
mentioned the sacromyasis bulardi start
taking that but also NAC okay it's also
good to start breaking up the bofilms
now here's another potent one oregano
oil okay what oregano oil does is it
actually kills the candida directly okay
it's an natural
Not just antibiotic, it's an antifungal,
it's an anti- yeast, antiviral. It kills
all these microbes without any side
effects. Step number three, you want to
flood reinforcements. Get a good
probiotic that has something called
lactobacillus and bifido bacterium. Now,
both of these will really help to change
the environment to make sure that this
candida cannot survive. So, a good
probiotic that has this that survives
the stomach. You want to get something
that is hydrochloric acid resistant so
it can get down into the small and large
intestine is going to be very important.
This is the rebuilding part right here.
The other thing I'm going to recommend
is fermented foods with each meal like
sauerkraut, kimchi, or even like kefir.
All of these are very acid. A tablespoon
of coconut oil has caprillic acid in it
that can actually directly help kill
candida. So coconut oil stops the growth
of candida directly. And then they also
recommended some apple cider vinegar in
a glass of water. Sip it with a straw,
but don't take it straight. Okay? You
want to dilute it like one tablespoon or
two tablespoons in a glass of water two
or three times a day. That's going to
start to acidify the body and improve
the pH of the environment. Now, there's
a lot of other things you can do, too,
like add garlic and onion and clove.
Those are all really important to start
to make this thing go bye-bye. And like
I said before, vitamin D is important.
Now, if you can get out in the sun, that
would be best because then you're going
to get the vitamin D. But if you can't,
then take at least 20 to 30,000 IUs of
vitamin D3 every single day. And of
course, with that, make sure K2 and
magnesium to allow it to work better. It
wouldn't hurt to take some zinc, but
sometimes when you get a vitamin D
product, it actually comes with a zinc,
so you don't have to worry about that.
And I already mentioned the stress. So,
go for a long walk each day. Try to get
at least 8 hours of sleep. And those
actions are literally the best things
you can do to make sure that candida
goes away and it doesn't come back.
Since we're talking about microbes, if
you have not seen my video, an eldery,
it's a cultured yogurt that you can make
that can take your health to the next
level. It'll increase oxytocin, which
will decrease your stress, and that's
also not a bad thing to take with this
because the pH of that is extremely
acid. It's way more acid than regular
yogurt. It's super healthy on so many
different levels. And to learn how to
make it, I put it in this video right
here. Check it out.
