Today we're going to talk about the 11
foods that can help shrink your prostate
naturally. When a man reaches the age of
50, over 50% of those men have an
enlarged prostate. I mean, that's
bizarre to me. Why would the prostate
start enlarging as we get older? The
prostate should be the size of a walnut,
but it can grow to be the size of an
orange. Okay? Okay. And then that
prostate when it gets bigger, it pushes
up into the bladder and then it reduces
the capacity of that bladder to hold
urine. The biggest symptom with an
enlarged prostate is this frequency of
urination at night, sometimes even more
than during the day. When I was in
practice, I've had men come in and tell
me that they had to get up literally 10
times a night to urinate. If you're
waking up that often, you literally are
destroying your sleep during the day.
you're going to be so tired, stress goes
up, your mood goes down, it affects your
cognitive control, it can lead to so
many other issues. So, this is a very
important problem to fix. And I'm going
to show you how to fix it with foods.
And then I'm also going to talk about
the foods that you need to completely
stay away from if we want to fix this
problem. And you can fix this issue. But
I want to differentiate two things
because if you're having this frequent
urination at night, yes, it could come
from this prostate enlargement, but it
can also come from another problem which
basically is called polyura, which means
you're just urinating frequently. And
that condition might occur without even
having an enlarged prostate. What makes
your body produce excessive urine, type
two diabetes, but even conditions that
are pre-diabetic?
If you're eating a lot of carbs and
you're just getting a lot of sugar
through the body, that tends to push out
a lot of fluid because your body has to
get rid of this sugar. So, it's going to
get rid of it through the urine. And
with the loss of sugar comes a loss of
water. Also, if you're drinking a
tremendous amount of water at night, I'm
going to highly recommend that you
increase more salt in the early part of
the day. So then you can drink most of
your water in the earlier part of the
day and not drink a few hours before
bed. In other videos, I talk about
consuming salt before bed to help reduce
cortisol, but only if you're not going
to drink a lot of water with it. So
instead of eating those chips, just put
a little salt on your tongue or even
just a little bit in a small amount of
water and slug that down. Or better yet,
just increase your salt more at dinner
or in the early part of the day. Another
thing is alcohol. Alcohol will
definitely increase your urination
through the night. Caffeine, especially
at night, it's a stimulant and your
liver has to get rid of it, but also
that can affect your urination at night
and act as a diuretic. There's certain
medications that a lot of people are on,
they don't even realize that could be
the problem, especially diuretics. If
you have kidney damage, you'll have less
urine output, but before you get to that
stage, there's usually more urination
output. This is an interesting one.
Sleep apneoa can increase the urine
output in your body. If your breathing
is off and you're trying to get air and
you're creating this uh environment
where you're not getting enough oxygen
because you have sleep apnnea, there's
all sorts of things that can happen that
will increase certain hormones that can
then cause more urination output. And if
you have sleep apnea,
click the video down below and watch
that video when we're done here. Okay, I
already mentioned the salt. Let's shift
gears to this prostate. If you look at
the medications that are recommended for
an enlarged prostate, most of them work
by inhibiting the certain enzyme that
then reduces this thing right here
called DHT, which is a very powerful
form of testosterone. It does work, but
it comes with a package. comes with side
effects. Testosterone actually converts
into this DHT which is a more powerful
form of testosterone and this also is
involved with hair loss too. But here's
the biggest question I want to know. As
we get older, our prostate enlarges, but
our testosterone goes down, right?
Because look at this testosterone goes
down as we age. So why is it that we
have a higher level of this more
powerful form of testosterone? And the
answer is this DHT does not actually
increase that much. It's just actually
working more. And that is where the
problem lies. There's some natural
things like salt palmetto, milk thistle,
stingy nettle root which are all natural
inhibitors of this five alpha reductase
enzyme. And so those I like because they
have very little side effects. Another
one would be pumpkin seed oil. This is
interesting. I had to dig to find this,
but I wanted to know if the prostate had
vitamin D receptors. And absolutely. The
reason why you have receptors for
vitamin D is that it controls the growth
of the prostate. It keeps it from
growing too much. If you are deficient
in vitamin D, that could be a reason why
your prostate is getting bigger. And
it's a simple solution. You can either
get more sun or take vitamin D. But so
many people are deficient in vitamin D,
especially as they age.
Also, vitamin D controls inflammation.
And a lot of people with an enlarged
prostate have more inflammation in the
prostate that then leads to scar tissue
and fibrosis. You have to radically
change the diet. And anytime you take
vitamin D, especially for the prostate,
I would not take anything less than
20,000 IUs because to penetrate a lot of
the barriers, especially as someone
ages, you have to increase it way more
than the regular RDAs, which are
ridiculous, which are like 600. So in
20,000 I use of vitamin D3 per day, is
equivalent to being out in the sun for
40 minutes. It's not that big of a deal.
And then also vitamin D works with
magnesium. They both work together.
Vitamin D won't work without magnesium.
Magnesium also helps control the smooth
muscle. It also helps protect you
against building up calcification in the
prostate, which a lot of people have as
well. So, this magnesium is super super
important. Do not get the magnesium
oxide that a lot of people get. Why?
Because you only absorb 3%.
Get the one that you absorb 80% and
you'll start seeing changes. is called
magnesium glycinate minimally 350
but maybe 400 maybe up to 600 the
magnesium because that'll also help you
sleep as well. There's a couple hormones
that we've already talked about. DHT
that kind of goes down. Testosterone
goes down. Estrogen does go down but not
as much as testosterone. But the point
is the relative ratio could be out of
balance where you have just too much
estrogen versus testosterone. And maybe
also because of the plastics in the
environment that can create a problem
with an enlarged prostate because of
estrogen. DIM is a good remedy because
that's a concentrated cruciferous
natural product that helps to balance
your estrogen. But there's something
more common that's going on with most
men. Insulin resistance. Just realize
that as we age, insulin goes up. And
insulin is a very powerful growth
hormone. If you're overweight or you
have belly fat, you're going to have
excessive insulin. That means this
prostate is going to be flooded with
insulin, which is also going to trigger
something else called IGF number one. We
must lower it because if we don't, the
prostate can keep getting bigger and
bigger and inflamed and it increases
androgens. So insulin is involved in so
many different things. And you probably
already know this, but insulin is
triggered by not just carbohydrates, but
it's the frequency of eating. So this
kind of goes beyond just what to eat. It
talks about when to eat and the
frequency of eating. These snacks
between meals, especially late night
snacking, is deadly on this prostate.
It's probably one of the biggest causes
of this polyurea right here. I was a
professional snacker at night for years.
So, I've been there. I've done that.
Let's go into the foods now. Number one,
low carbohydrates. This is kind of not a
food, but it's just kind of a
description of what you should be not
eating, right? Uh too many
carbohydrates. So, then we just switch
over here. What to avoid? Sweets,
starches. Okay, not just sugar, but
hidden sugar. Star starches. It's bread,
pasta, cereal, crackers, biscuits, which
are basically sugar. So, you want to eat
meat, eggs, and vegetables. Salmon
because of the omega-3 fats. That's
anti-inflammatory. Get wild caught
salmon. Really, really healthy. But you
can also do sardines. Number three,
arugula. This is a cruciferous
vegetable. But arugula is a really good
base for your salad because it increases
nitric oxide which actually is a vasod
diilator and it allow the urine to come
out fully and so you're not holding any
urine. So arugula is a really good one.
It has the most nitric oxide of
anything. Beets are also high in nitric
oxide. So these two put them in a salad.
Perfect. Number five, pumpkin seeds.
I've already talked about pumpkin seed
oil for the prostate, but pumpkin seeds
and pumpkin seed oil decrease that
enzyme that makes more DHT. So, it'll
actually lower that. Number six, dark
chocolate. It's almost bitter with the
least amount of sugar. Chocolate has
polyphenols
that increase nitric oxide. Now, some
people are going to say comment, "Oh,
yeah, but chocolate's high in oxalates,
but it's also high in magnesium, a much
better binder to oxalates than calcium."
So, if you have enough magnesium in
there, it'll protect you against the
calcium oxalate stones that some people
get. Green tea also decreases that DHT.
I've talked about that. That would be a
good thing to drink during the day. You
can get one that's decaffeinated, but
green tea is one of the best things.
Tomato and tomato paste actually is
loaded with lycopine which is known to
support the prostate and lower your risk
of prostate cancer. I'm going to
recommend cod liver oil because it's
very unique. It's different than fish
oil. It has the omega-3 plus the vitamin
D plus the vitamin A, but you can also
get cod liver in a can and it's bathed
in cod liver oil. Apple cider vinegar
before a meal will help to regulate your
blood sugars. Remember, we're trying to
fix insulin resistance, right? So, this
would be really good. Watermelon is
another thing that can help increase
nitric oxide, too. Not a lot of it, but
what I found when you drink watermelon,
it has electrolytes as well. But I'm not
talking about drinking this right before
bed because that's going to make you
want to urinate. Take that earlier in
the day. These are the things that cause
insulin resistance. Sweets, starches,
and seed oils. So, you must get off the
seed oils to fix insulin resistance.
We've already talked about alcohol. Milk
can enlarge the prostate, especially
commercial milk because of the hormones
involved in it. Soda, basically, you're
drinking sugar water, not good for what
we're dealing with. Fried foods and seed
oil, deadly. And then artificial
sweeteners. This can really flare up
your prostate and create more problems.
One of the things I started out talking
about that was really important is
vitamin D. And you need to know the full
picture of vitamin D and what that can
do not just for the prostate, but for
the rest of the body. And for that
information, you should watch this video
right here.
