The most damaging carb on planet Earth
is not sugar. In fact, in a lot of
situations, it's advertised as, oh, zero
sugar. So, it's healthy. Here's the big
problem. It's in 60% of our foods
without our awareness. And I'm just
going to tell you what it is.
Maltodextrin,
which is classified not as a sugar, but
it acts more like a sugar than sugar
acts like sugar. Let's just take a look
at an apple. On the glycemic index, it's
36. Table sugar is 65. Glucose is 100.
Maltodextrin on the glycemic index, this
is the index that actually shows how
fast your blood sugar spikes. Starts at
136 and can go up to 180. So, this is
very, very, very weird and it got my
attention. So, I did a deep dive into
it. I'm going to share some fascinating
information. It's not classified as a
sugar because a sugar has one or two
sugar units. So they can call that a
sugar. But here's the thing. When you
have a third sugar unit, okay, maybe up
to 17 sugar units, it's no longer called
sugar. It's called a complex
carbohydrate, aka starch. Okay, so this
is what a starch looks like. It's made
out of sugar. It's not called sugar. It
can actually be classified as zero
sugar, but it really is sugar. It
instantly turns into sugar, but it'll
start to spike the blood sugar super
fast. And so maltodextrin goes through a
whole chemical process. They start with
corn starch, and then they add enzymes
and acids and other chemicals to make
maltodextrin. It's an infant formula,
protein shakes, weight gain formulas.
But the blood sugar spike is just one
tiny little bad thing it does, okay? It
does a lot of other bad things which I'm
going to get into, but I first want to
clarify a couple cousins of
maltodextrin. Typically, you have
regular starch, corn or potato or rice.
But then when we get into industrial
starches, what they do is they add a
bunch of chemicals and heat and enzymes
to manipulate it to turn it into
something completely different than
natural starch that you would get out of
the garden. But it's basically used as a
filler and something to bulk up a
product. So when we get into corn syrup
solids, it's basically maltodextrin
that's cut into smaller little chunks.
Okay, that's basically what corn syrup
solids are or corn syrup. So instead of
having these longer units of glucose,
they just cut it down so it fits into
the sugar category as corn syrup or corn
syrup solids. When we get into modified
food starch, when they use the word
modified, they're using more chemicals
to break it down versus enzymes and
acids. So modified means it's broken
down with chemicals. But when you read
the back of the label and you see
maltodextrone, modified food starch,
modified cornstarch, tapioca starch, it
creates a very, very similar effect to
this right here. And then you have
something else called resistant
malttodextrin. is basically they start
out with maltodextrin and then they
process it more and then they make these
bonds so damaged that they then don't
break down and then they resist breaking
down in your body and so they apparently
don't spike your blood sugar. But
there's more to the story. I'm going to
talk more about this in just a little
bit. So a lot of people ask me what
supplements do I recommend? Now of
course I'm not biased of my own
highquality supplement line but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. ber
supplements, you'll find more
information. And the reason I'm doing
this video is because it's in so many
different places. You need to be aware
of it and you need to make sure you
don't consume it. There actually is a
home test to determine if you have
malttodextrin in one of your products. I
will show you how to do that test at the
end of this presentation. I was in the
grocery store last week looking for this
ingredient. It's in a lot of the
sugar-free drink mixes. It's in a lot of
the protein powders. It's in a lot of
those little protein bars, in
electrolyte powders. It's fillers and
medications. It's in salad dressings.
It's in instant soups. It's in seasoning
packets. So, what does it do in addition
to spiking your blood sugar and creating
a fatty liver and making you gain
weight? It destroys the gut mucous layer
deep inside your intestines. This is
where you have these trillions of
friendly bacteria and unfriendly
bacteria as well in your gut. The
Cleveland Clinic studied what happens
when you feed animals maltodextrin. What
they found is that maltodextrin causes
your body to produce much less mucus.
The wall gets thinner and when the wall
thins, the bacteria on the outside
starts moving towards the inside. They
call that microbial encroachment.
There's a strain of E.coli that keeps
showing up with people with Crohn's
disease. There was a study from
Cleveland Clinic that showed that
maltodextrin
flips the genetic switch, telling
bacteria to grow these little tiny
arm-like structures called peely that
can grab onto your gut wall and then
they build a protective fortress under
the radar so your immune system can't
find them. Glucose doesn't encourage
that. Maltodextrin
does. In one study, I found that
malttodextrin supports the growth of
salmonillaa colonization. So, here you
are, you're eating food, you don't even
know you're eating malttodextrin. It's
in the food supply and you're wondering,
why do I have this inflammation in my
gut? And they found it doesn't take
large amounts. It could be small amounts
consistently consumed on a regular
basis. Yet, this whole time it's
generally recognized as safe. It's
called gross. That's a loophole where
the industry gets to tell you that it's
safe without really doing independent
studies. When you consume a lot of sugar
or refined carbohydrates, malttodextrin,
you eat up your B1 reserve big time. Our
body at any one time only really stores
25 to 30 milligrams of B1. So every time
you're consuming either glucose or
malttodextrin, you're using up your B1.
you run out of B1, it no longer produces
energy. This is where the machine, the
engine starts to bog down. You start to
have problems. You're going to feel like
you can't relax. Your tolerance for
stress is going to be lower. You may
even have restless legs at night. In
many states, the US paramedics require a
protocol of giving a person 100
milligrams of V1 before administering
glucose to any patient suspected of
being malnourished. 100 milligrams.
Okay. The RDAs are 1.2 milligrams or 1.5
milligrams. It's a joke. This is why
most diabetics are suffering severely
from a B1 deficiency in the peripheral
part of their body, especially their
toes. This is why they get peripheral
neuropathy. The antidote to peripheral
neuropathy is higher doses of B1. And I
recommend the fat soluble B1 called
benzotamine. Okay? You take that and
that can penetrate through the myelin,
which is a fat layer around your nerves
to help heal that. It's the only thing I
know that can heal it. A lack of B1 can
create problems with your heartbeat. It
can affect your breathing, blood
pressure, definitely anxiety, and
definitely gut problems. So, check this
out. you have this root cause that's
affecting this that's giving you all
these symptoms and then you can imagine
how many different medications a person
will be on to treat the symptoms down
here without even addressing the root
cause but I think a really good way to
detect if someone's deficient in B1 is
nervous anxiety and just the fact that
they feel like they have air hunger they
just can't get enough air they need
thamine I want to come back to this
resistant malttodextr They say it's
safe. It's totally fine to have it. In
fact, they put it in something called
Fibersol 2. This is manufactured by a
Japanese company. All of the studies
were beneficial. They showed no
problems. And of course, all of the
studies were funded by the Japanese
company who were partnering with this
other big A company. Coincidentally, the
FDA classified it as a fiber. So, the
company that's selling it actually did
the research. I didn't see any
independent research at all. Zero. And
no one tested consuming this with this
at the same time. Because in our foods,
we have multiple ingredients. We don't
just consume one thing. Okay. I think
this video was very, very important to
increase your awareness of industrial
starch. Okay. Right here. The simple
thing is to start reading ingredients
and start looking for if it has
maltodextrin, if it has modified food
starch. Don't just go by, oh, it's no
sugar. All right, I'm going to show you
an experiment. This test is to determine
if there are carbohydrates in your
supplements or even your food. Going to
focus on maltodextrin because that's a
the hidden carb, which is really a
sugar. If you combine iodine with the
starch, it turns the color blue. Now, if
we take just normal water, okay, I'm
just going to take water.
We just take a drop or two of iodine in
just regular water, tap water, you can
see it doesn't turn blue. Stays kind of
golden yellow. Okay? But if we take
some iodine on some wonderful bread, you
can see it will turn it blue. Okay?
That's the chemical reaction. Now, if we
take pure maltodextrin, for example,
and put it in some water right here.
Okay, mix it up. Put a couple drops of
iodine in it.
You can see the color
blue or purple. Okay, that's pure
moltodextrin. All right, now let's take
my electrolyte powder. Let's see if it
has any moltodextrin in there.
Mix it here. Let's put a couple drops of
iodine in there.
No purple, no malttodextrin. And I know
this video was what not to consume, and
I always like to balance it with what to
consume. If you want to know the
healthiest things to eat on planet
Earth, watch this video right here.
