Let's talk about why your feet and
ankles swell every single evening and
exactly how to fix it. I had this
problem for a decade. I didn't really
know what it was back then, but back
then, even in my early 30s, I would
press into my lower part of my leg and
it would leave a dent. That's called
pitting edema. So, today I'm going to
show you exactly what's behind that and
how to fix it. It's so easy. When you do
a search on edema in your lower
extremities, sometimes you're going to
see varicose veins, you're going to see
a lot of other terminology, which is
very confusing. So, let me just explain
what the veins are. Veins are the other
half of the circulation. So, you have
arteries that go from the heart that
push your blood down to your feet and
your fingers and up to your head. Then
it crosses over through these little
capillaries into the Venus system. And
the Venus system returns the blood up to
the heart. And when you have a problem
with the Venus system, you can get a
pooling effect of fluid. There's other
causes of edema as well, like your
liver, for example, can be damaged. And
your liver makes certain proteins that
help hold the blood in your arteries.
And when you don't have the protein in
your arteries, you actually have certain
parts of the blood that can ooze out
through the circulation into the
tissues. And when the kidney's damaged,
you can also lose protein and create
that same thing. So, a lot of people ask
me, "What supplements do I recommend?"
Now, of course, I'm not biased of my own
high-quality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg
supplements, you'll find more
information. And a lot of people blame
fluid retention on standing too much or
sitting too much, but that doesn't
really explain edema because certain
people stand for many, many hours at
work and they never get edema. Certain
people sit in a chair in front of a
computer for many hours and they don't
always have edema. Some people do and
some people don't. When a patient goes
to the doctor with this condition,
they're told they have venous
insufficiency and they're put on a
diuretic to push the fluid out. They're
also told to go on a low-salt diet. Both
of these treat the symptom. There's
something else going on at a root cause
level. And that is something called a
metabolic sponge, okay? When you have
too much insulin that builds up in your
blood supply, your body starts to retain
sodium. And anytime you retain sodium,
you're also going to retain fluid. So,
in other words, the thing that triggers
insulin is carbs. And what you need to
know is carbs hold water. For every one
unit of carb, you're going to hold three
units of water. So, basically, a
high-carb diet causes a metabolic sponge
in your body that shows up in your feet
and your ankles. Especially if you take
your socks off at night and you see that
indentation where the sock is, that is
purely this situation right here. And I
can totally recommend that you go out
and walk more and you exercise more and
you also do more calf exercises, which
basically are like a second heart. When
you activate your calf, even if you're
sitting in front of your desk, you're
activating your veins, okay? Helping you
push the blood. But, if this metabolic
sponge is not handled, you're not going
to see many results with more exercise.
And as soon as you stop taking your
diuretic pills, it's going to come right
back because the root cause is not
identified. The other thing that's
involved with eating sugar and refined
carbs is the severe lack of potassium.
Now, if we take a look at sodium and
potassium, we need a certain ratio. We
need a lot more potassium than we do
sodium. The average person doesn't even
come close to getting half of the amount
of required potassium that we need,
which is 4,700
mg, okay? And even if a patient goes to
the health food store and buys
potassium, it comes in 99 mg pills,
right? How many pills of 99 mg would you
have to take to get 4,700? That would be
a lot. That would be like taking almost
half the bottle. But, it's very
important to put this potassium thing on
your radar because even if you're on a
diuretic pill, guess what's going to
happen? It actually depletes potassium.
And even doctors will prescribe
potassium pills with the diuretic to
give you a little more potassium, but
you need a lot more than what is in
those pills. So, going on a low-salt
diet does not correct the insulin
problem, the carb problem, the lack of
potassium. But, if you were to do three
things, lower your insulin by getting
rid of your carbs and sugar, going on
what's called the ketogenic diet, and
then decreasing the frequency of eating,
that's called intermittent fasting, you
would instantly lower insulin and you
would stop retaining sodium and you
would lose a tremendous amount of excess
fluid that you have building up in your
body. This is why in the first 1 to 2
weeks going on the low-carb diet, a
person will lose between 7 and 11 lb of
fluid. And they're losing it from this
metabolic sponge that's holding it in
there and it's locked in there with
insulin. But, the key to this whole
thing to make it work out is the
addition of potassium. Taking more
potassium. Why? Because that's going to
balance out the sodium. That's also
going to indirectly help you lower
insulin and make insulin more sensitive
and it's going to effectively help you
push out a lot of excess fluid that
you're holding on to and help you
maintain that. But, not only that, you
need potassium desperately for the
sodium-potassium pump. This is a pump
that's in all of your cells that helps
activate the fluid out of your body.
But, more importantly,
the sodium-potassium pump is a pump that
can't work without sufficient potassium.
Now that you understand the root cause
of swelling, the next most important
thing for you to wrap your wits around
is this potassium right here. There's a
lot more to know about it and I put all
this information in this video right
here. Check it out.
