Over 90% of all chronic disease stems
from this one big lie related to a lot
of other lies that have taken decades
before they were debunked and corrected.
Before we get into the underlying cause
of most chronic disease, let me share
some other fascinating things that
contribute to disease. Let's just take
for example Crisco. It's an alternative
cooking oil they came up with in 1911.
It actually had to do with repurposing
candles. A lot of those candles and
lanterns used cottonseed oil. Someone
had a broad idea. Let's use it for
cooking oil. Get people to start using
that instead of butter, instead of tail
and lard. Out of all the things that
destroy the heart, brain, tissues, and
cells, trans fats are at the top of the
list. There was never any safety studies
done on trans fats back then. It
literally took over a hundred years to
get these trans fats banned or at least
create enough public outrage to get
people not to consume them. Asbestos,
all the insulation in your house, we
used to use asbestos. That took 90 years
to get that off the market. What about
DDT? It's a very, very toxic pesticide.
That took 30 years. Yeah, the whole DDT
thing didn't work out. But you know
what's even better than that? Glyphosate
Roundup Ready. Initially, it was used to
uh clean out pipes. Let's use it as a
weed killer. How about that? Then we
have fluoride, which is still being used
in the water supply and it's in our
toothpaste as something to prevent
cavities. Do you realize where fluoride
came from? The aluminum industry.
Someone had this great idea. Oh, I have
a great idea. Let's put it in the water
supply. Let's uh use it to help prevent
dental decay and we'll get the American
Dental Association to promote it. And I
think now in certain states they're
starting to ban it because fluoride does
lower your IQ. Do you realize that
sodium nitrate, the stuff in preserved
meats like bacon and sausage, it was
used to protect explosives? Sodium
nitrate stabilizes gunpowder. You
realize that saccharine is made from
petroleum. They had a great idea. Let's
turn this into an artificial sweetener.
Then we have another product called
Bioolids. Someone in the sewage sludge
waste department had this brilliant idea
to turn this very toxic thing into
something that is very beneficial. They
use bioolids in the soil that grows your
vegetables. But I think out of all those
products, the one that is most
interesting is the dent corn. This is
field corn. It's not edible. Completely
genetically modified. paid by your tax
dollars to the point where it is so
cheap you can buy a metric ton of it for
$198.
Let's turn that into feed for the cattle
and the pigs. They've literally come up
with over 4,000 different products you
can make high fructose corn syrup,
moltodextrin, modified food starch, and
most of the vitamin C comes from this
byproduct from corn. Not to mention seed
oils. How many years does that have to
be on the market before people realize
that it's not heart healthy? It's
severely inflammatory and it creates a
lot of inflammation in your body.
There's been a lot of PR actions to make
something that is naturally unhealthy to
be very healthy. Seed oils are perfectly
healthy for everyone. Just keep buying
it. There's also the idea that grass-fed
red meat causes cancer, which is a total
lie. They put grass-fed red meat in the
same category as processed meat. Of
course, what about butter? We know
butter is super fattening, filled with
cholesterol, and that's going to clog
our arteries. Everyone knows that.
Complete lie. What about eggs? Eggs have
cholesterol. I mean, I can go through
the whole list, but let's talk about the
absolute number one biggest lie that has
created the most chronic disease of
anything. And if this was just changed,
all of this chronic disease would go
away within weeks. You ready for it?
Carbohydrates are essential for your
health. Your brain prefers glucose as a
primary fuel. Our brains were designed
to live on glucose. That is a lie. Most
of the chronic disease in the US comes
directly from the overconumption of
these types of carbohydrates. It is the
lowering of one's carbs that will
produce the biggest health benefit of
everything. This is why keto is one of
the most attacked diets out there
because it works. eliminating type two
diabetes, obesity, high blood pressure,
all sorts of mood disorders, cognitive
dysfunction, and because most Americans
have at least one chronic disease,
adding the low carbohydrate diet as an
option for those people needs to be part
of the dietary food guidelines. No one
reads those guidelines, so why do we
even have to have them? People ignore
them. the school system, the hospitals,
the assisted living, the military, the
prison systems, dieticians, all follow
the dietary guidelines. And if a doctor
steps out of the box and recommends a
low carb diet, they can be penalized
unless the low carb recommendations are
within those dietary guidelines. I know
the push back is that we can't have a
one-sizefits-all. We're not trying to do
that. We must have a low carb option.
The current dietary guidelines actually
create more disease than it eliminates.
There is overwhelming research on the
science behind doing low carb,
especially as it eradicates chronic
disease. I'm going to put that link
right down below in a little booklet
that we created. Thanks for watching and
I will see you in the next video.
