Dr. Burke here. Today we're going to
talk about the most barbaric medical
treatment that is still being used
today. Out of all the things in the
history of medicine, I think labbotoies
were the absolute worst, but this is the
second worst. but it's still being used
as a medical treatment today for
depression and other mental illnesses.
And so this is a pretty disgusting
topic, but I need to cover it to make
people aware because you're not even
going to believe that this still is
going on. Let's first talk about the
cost. Between $2,000 to $2,500 per
treatment. Let's see if you can guess
what this treatment is. It's covered by
Medicaid, Medicare, and the VA system.
The market of this is a multi-billion
dollar industry. It's a cash cow. You
can make a lot of money off this
therapy. An average treatment includes
12 sessions in the first month, but then
you have a maintenance at one treatment
every 3 weeks. Next one, it's never been
scientifically proven to work. There's
never ever been any double-blinded
placebo control trials. This treatment
is done on [snorts] kids 8 years old,
pregnant females. It's even been given
to women with PMS. The UN actually calls
this a human right abuse, comparing this
forced treatment on minors to torture.
This is also being used in China as
torture. But of course, in America, we
call it a therapy. And on top of that,
they don't even know why it works. I
mean, one thing they use it for is
depression. It makes you forget, at
least temporarily, that you even had
depression. And it was never FDA
approved. Never FDA approved. How did it
get through? Well, it was grandfathered
in with a loophole. And in 2018, the FDA
downgraded it from a high-risk
classification three to a moderate risk
classification two. And it causes
structural brain damage creating
swelling or inflammation of the brain,
neuronal death, basically killing the
brain cells. Can you guess what therapy
I'm talking about?
E CT,
electro convulsive therapy, aka shock
therapy. That's where they put a 150
volts through your brain to induce a
grandma seizure. That's the therapy. And
yes, I know what you're saying. They
banned this long ago. No, they didn't.
It's still in existence. In fact, if you
were to take your cell phone and just
say ECT near me, you're going to find
places all around you that are doing
this. Some in the basement of hospitals,
other clinics, but they're still doing
this barbaric treatment. There are
massive side effects. There's at least
60 adverse events documented. Permanent
brain damage, permanent memory loss,
heart attacks. I mean, when you think
about how much electricity you would
have to have to stop the heart, it's
actually just 100 millolts. They use 500
to 800 mill volts with 150 volts for 8
seconds. So, you're putting enough
electrical energy to stop the heart, but
on your brain. So, why would you have a
heart attack if it's focused on the
brain? Well, the brain is connected to
the rest of the body. So, what stops
this voltage from going through the
entire body? One of the side effects is
cardiac arrest, increased risk of
suicide, and the list goes on and on and
on. When I was in practice, I had people
come in that had this ECT therapy,
so-called therapy. I mean, I actually
called it traumatic brain injury. When I
was in practice, when people would come
in after having that, they had a lot of
problems. They had a loss of their
personality, a loss of their humor, loss
of their creativity. They just weren't
themselves. and they're coming to me,
but I was never successful in helping
them get some of that back because it
wasn't a diet thing. It wasn't a
nutritional deficiency thing. It was a
traumatic brain injury thing. And even
to give this to pregnant women or
children is barbaric because some of the
side effects are actually death. And
what it does to your DNA and your cells
and your mitochondria, massive
destruction. It actually shrinks the
part of the brain called the hippocampus
that is like a relay with all your
memories. after the therapy, you're just
never the same. It's
>> like the worst headache I've ever had.
And then I started panicking because I
didn't know who I was.
I don't remember.
[snorts] I don't remember anything. I
remember what happened the day before
was, you know, I didn't remember
anything at all.
When I came back, I wasn't used to my
home, my neighborhood, nothing. And the
next four years are blank.
>> Neurologist Dr. John Fineberg wrote in
the American Journal of Psychiatry in
1977 that ECT caused structural brain
damage indistinguishable from head
trauma. I mean, with this topic, I asked
myself like, what is the elephant in the
room? Why aren't they looking at the
root cause of why they even needed a
treatment in the first place? I'll
guarantee they're not going to look at
your diet. They're not going to look at
nutritional deficiencies. If someone has
depression, they should be monitoring
their vitamin D levels, their B vitamin
levels, their omega-3 fatty acid levels.
They should be looking at their diet to
get them on a low carb diet. They should
be doing intermittent fasting. All of
these things greatly help depression.
So, there's so many alternative things
that someone can do for mental disorders
that are more natural, that are a lot
less barbaric. I mean, if you don't care
about your memories or your life or
anything like that, oh yeah, go ahead,
do it. You know, if you love pain, you
know, you love headaches and all that,
yeah, go do it. You know, if you want to
remember your life, you want to remember
your friends and all the good times,
yeah, don't do it.
>> Now, if you're like me and you agree
with how barbaric this is and you want
to do something about this, I have a
link down in the description that you
can do something about. You can fill it
out and you can start to petition
against this therapy to your state
representative. And if enough of us do
this, we can make a change to have a
therapy that has never been tested, but
it's paid for through the taxpayers
dollars to Medicaid, Medicare, the VA
system on such a barbaric treatment with
so many side effects is completely and
utterly insane. And if you agree with
me, please click the link below, fill
out the form, petition against this so
we can all collectively do something
about it. Now, if any of you have any
type of mental problems or depression or
anything, I created a video on how to
address that more naturally without the
side effects in this video right here.
Check it out.
