We are going to talk about the 11
reasons that you should never weigh
yourself. I've had a nutritional
practice for over 30 years and I've
dealt with a lot of people that want to
lose weight. And I'm telling you, if
they hyperfocus on looking at their
weight every single day, the amount of
frustration or discouragement that's
going to happen because your weight's
going to fluctuate up and down, up and
down, or actually nothing might change
through the week is going to spike your
cortisol. And that stress alone will
prevent you from losing weight. I've
seen it over and over and over. I mean,
just think about what's normal for an
average person. The most that someone
can lose if they're on some diet per
week is between one and two lb. If you
have a really good metabolism, it's 2
lbs. If you're an average person,
especially as you're getting older, it
might be one pound. And so, think about
that. How much weight can you lose every
single day? It's very similar to
investing in the stock market. You're
watching your stocks every single hour
hoping to get rich and it comes up and
down, up and down, up. You're going to
be just very frustrated. There's a much
better measurement to know that you're
really losing fat. I'm going to show you
that. But now, let's talk about why you
shouldn't weigh yourself. Okay, number
one, water weight. When you start losing
weight, the first thing that's going to
happen is you're going to lose water
weight.
You know, the ideal goal is to lose this
right here. Not necessarily water weight
unless you have edema or swelling. But
your liver is a fluidfilled sack. This
stored sugar called glycogen that comes
with a lot of extra fat. In other words,
300 gram of glycogen. That's that stored
sugar is literally holding a lot of
water with that. When you start on the
weight loss program, you're going to
dump the fluid and you're going to be
very excited because, wow, I lost three
and a half pounds the first day or two.
In fact, you might lose a lot of water
weight depending on how much fluid
retention you have. I've had people lose
between 7 and 11 pounds in just two days
because they were just water logged in
their ankles, in their body. And so
that's just one thing to look at because
here you lost all the weight and it
stops and then you're like, "Oh my gosh,
my weight loss program stopped working."
No, you just got rid of the fluid.
Another variable that you need to
consider is the salt. You go out to
dinner, have something salty, you come
home, eat something salty, you eat
something with mono sodium glutamate,
which is a lot of hidden sodium, you're
going to just gain one or two pounds.
I'm not just talking about the salt
causing you to drink more water. talking
about just having more salt and
retaining fluid. We consume a lot of
salt and that's going to cause this up
and down roller coaster. And I'm not
recommending avoiding salt. Just realize
it's going to cause a fluctuation,
especially if you're consuming sugar
with the salt. That's like going to be
like a turbo roller coaster. And also
certain medications have a lot of hidden
sodium as well. People don't realize.
Let's talk about hormones. If a female
goes through their menstrual cycle,
well, it's usually like a a few days
before,
they can gain between 3 to seven pounds
of fluid because of the fluctuation of
estrogen. Okay? So, that's another
factor to take in consideration. Also,
you have another hormone that really
messes with your fluids and that's
cortisol.
Cortisol retains sodium and causes the
loss of potassium. And so now we're
losing all this potassium and we gain
the sodium and then we retain fluid just
from the stress. It's another factor. I
want to mention the location of fat
because this is a little interesting
side note. The worst fat you can have is
the visceral fat around the body. One
type of visceral fat which is
technically not visceral fat but it's
called epicardio
fat. fat around the heart. That is one
of the best predictors of heart attacks
of anything. And people don't even talk
about it, but it's a very important test
to get if you're concerned about heart
attacks called epic cardio fat. And then
you have fat on the back of your tongue
which could cause you to have sleep
apnea. And then you also have another
fat that goes inside the organs like the
pancreas and messes with the function of
the pancreas. The fat can go in the
liver and really mess up the function of
the liver. And some people hold more fat
around the hips and the thighs, which by
the way is not visceral fat. It's
actually a non-dangerous fat. And it's
actually a fat that's really good if
someone is pregnant because there's high
levels of omega-3 fats, DHA, for that
baby. is if you're on a weight loss
program and you see zero weight loss,
what could be happening is you're losing
the epicardial fat first and you're
losing the fat off your liver and your
pancreas which is not going to show up
on the scale. And so you're going to
take it as a loss when in fact it's
actually working. You just have to give
it more time because the whole concept
is to not lose weight to get healthy.
It's to get healthy, then lose the
weight. Very important corrected
sequence of events. And as you start
getting healthy, it might not show up in
weight loss because you can't really see
what's happening deep in the organs. But
one thing I do want to mention, the fat
in the liver and the pancreas and the
heart, that type of fat can come off
very quickly. You can lose liver fat
within days or weeks. And I'm going to
show you how and what's behind that. So,
that's the good news. All right, next
one is muscle loss or muscle gain. I've
seen people go on a prolonged fast and
then they go on a low calorie diet and
they get really thin and you can see
they lose their muscle. That is not
healthy. And what's happening is they're
losing the tissue that is really part of
their metabolism. So with a muscle loss,
it comes with a lot of negative things.
And another thing that's connected to
that, I'm going to come right down to
ozic number eight.
Yes, people lose weight with Ozembic,
but as soon as they get off Ozemic, they
gain virtually almost all of it back.
Okay, so now they're dependent on it.
But check this out. 20 to 40% of that
weight loss that they lose with a ZIC is
muscle loss. That's crazy. So that to me
is not healthy. I want to mention muscle
gain. When someone starts a healthy
eating program and they're adding
exercise and they're adding weight
training and they're building more
muscle, what's going to happen to that
scale? Uh well, it's going to either go
up because you're going to gain muscle
because if we compare muscle to fat, uh
muscle's a little heavier. And so either
you're going to see an increase of
weight or a net zero weight loss because
again the scale doesn't really give you
those details. So, it can be very
frustrating to people if they don't
understand they're gaining muscle and
that is a good thing and that's a
necessary thing as well. Let's go to
number six. Mixade edema. What the heck
is mixed edema? Mixedema is a type of
fat that you'll see with a hypothyroid
case. It's not actually water or edema
necessarily and it's not actual fat.
It's this spongy fat that's all over.
It's uh it's not even fat. It's mixed
edema and you can't get rid of this with
regular
diets or exercise. You have to fix the
thyroid. Okay? So, if you have a
Hashimoto's
condition where it's an autoimmune, then
that requires a different protocol than
a nonautoimmune case. I will put some
links down below of what to do if you
have that. But, I just wanted to bring
that up. If you're trying to lose this
and you're looking at the scale and you
don't see anything on the scale, now we
know why. It's the thyroid. So, there's
a lot of variables involving losing
weight. And then we get to sleep. If you
have crappy sleep just for one week, you
actually develop insulin resistance
almost like a pre-diabetic situation
just from not sleeping. People that
don't sleep, they get the munchies, they
snack more, they get more visceral fat,
they have lower testosterone. That means
they have a less chance of developing
muscles.
When you don't sleep, your stress goes
up. The cortisol goes up. I had a lady
come in to see me long ago at the gym on
a diet working hard for an entire year
and basically only lost one or two
pounds for the entire year. You talk
about frustration, right? And she's like
looking at the scale, looking at the
scale, it's not happening, but she kind
of just stuck it out. Well, guess what?
She wasn't sleeping. All I did was fix
her sleep. And bam, she started losing
weight. So the relationship between lack
of sleep and stress is huge. Number
eight, we've already talked about that.
Number nine is micro damage from
exercise. If you overtrain or even if
you, let's say you exercise, but you
really are out of shape and you start
exercising, you're going to create a lot
of muscle breakdown and kind of micro
trauma, which is part of the process of
exercise. And you're going to get edema
from that. you're going to get swelling,
which means your weight will go up after
you exercise. And so, you're going to be
like, "Wow, I just worked out. I should
be losing weight, right?" All the
benefit of exercise happens like 48
hours or 72 hours after you exercise
while you're recovering, when you're
sleeping. So, you might actually even
gain weight after you work out. So,
that's another variable. Then, of
course, you have medications. a very
underappreciated area that a lot of
people are just gaining a lot of weight
with the side effect of medication and
also a lot of fluid retention from
calcium channel blockers even type 2
diabetes medications. Number 11,
constipation.
That's another one. I had a lady come
in. She was very obese and she wanted to
lose a lot of weight and but she has
constipation. I'm talking she goes like
once a month and I'm not kidding. And I
said, "Listen, we need to focus on your
constipation." She goes, "No, no, no,
no. I just want to lose the weight." I
said, "It's not going to work. You're
full of" And I didn't say what she was
full of, but she was basically full of
waste. And you got to fix that first.
people that are eating all this fiber
because they tell you that fiber will
help you lose weight and the fiber is
just retaining fluid in their gut and
they get constipated. You can gain a lot
of weight on fiber just alone.
Especially if it's the soluble corn
fiber or the polydextrois, a synthetic
fiber that they're telling people to
consume for weight loss, thinking it's
low calories, but it's a sponge that's
filling up with fluid in your gut and
it's all sluggish. Now, let's go into a
much better way to determine if you're
losing fat and also the secret to being
able to lose as much weight as you want.
A much better, more accurate way to know
that you're losing visceral fat is the
waist to height ratio measurement. All
you have to do is get a tape measure
around your waist, right at the level of
the belly button, and track that, not
every day, maybe every other day, and
just keep looking at that in
relationship to your height, which is
not going to change. And you want that
to be below 0.5. So, in other words, you
want your waist to be less than half of
your height. Okay? And as it starts to
go down, you can rest assured that
you're losing visceral fat. So, a lot of
the visceral fat is in your midsection.
And losing that is the most important
thing for your health that you can do
because you have to realize that fat is
actually a survival mechanism. Your body
does not like to get rid of a fat. And
this is why I recommend you actually
even shift your goal to just focus on
getting healthy because you can lose a
lot more with that goal in mind. One of
the best biioarkers to focus on as well
is the fasting insulin,
not even blood sugar. Maybe not even
A1C, which is another test that measures
an average of three months of blood
sugar because at the very beginning of
having insulin resistance, it might not
be severe. And so insulin is coming in
as fast as you're eating that sugar and
pulling it out and you keep checking
your blood sugar and it's normal despite
eating a lot of sugar. So it's not the
best test and so there's a much better
test and it's insulin. But doctors never
check it. I like to keep it below five.
Insulin is the hormone that causes you
to keep storing fat. So, one function is
the storage of fat, but also it actually
prevents the burning of fat. It's like
the big break that tells the liver to
stop making sugar. This next point is
super interesting. So, hang with me
because this really relates to
diabetics. 80%
of the blood sugar in a type 2 diabetic
person is coming from their own body.
the liver is making tons of sugar.
There's so much insulin resistance in
the liver, it doesn't work anymore. So
then the pancreas has to go crazy and
pump out all this extra insulin. And
this is why we want to check this
fasting insulin to see if that's
happening. Now, I'm going to show you
how to correct it. It's very easy and
it's reversible. But unfortunately,
doctors don't look at that. Instead,
they treat or manage that disease with
drugs. But they don't go into the diet.
They don't talk about the root cause.
But this is why when a type two diabetic
wakes up in the morning, they have like
high sugar. Now, they didn't even eat
any sugar last night or the day before
and then they fast all night long, yet
they wake up with this high sugar.
What's going on? The liver is making a
ton of sugar. It's not coming from the
diet. It's being converted from other
things. Okay, pretty wild. I want to
just mention this number three here.
Appetite. Appetite is one of the best
simple ways to know that you are burning
fat and it's working. Okay? Way more
than weight, way more than anything
else, it's the appetite. Why? When you
go from one meal to the next, especially
if you're fasting and let's say you're
fasting for 18 hours and you're still
not hungry after 18 hours, like why? You
haven't eaten. Well, you are eating.
You're eating this. You're eating your
fat. So, when you can go longer between
meals without an appetite, it means that
you're finally in fat burning. Okay? And
that is one of the best indicators to
know if you're in fat burning because
you're not hungry. If you can't go very
long without getting hungry, that means
you are not burning fat and you haven't
converted your body into burning fat
because of several reasons, which we're
going to get into. Number four is very,
very important. It's a very simple
concept, but realize this. All it takes
is just a tiny bit of carbohydrates. A
little bit of bread or a little bit of
pasta or a half a glass of wine to raise
insulin for a good amount of time. So,
if you're trying to get in fat burning,
we call that ketosis,
and you consume a tiny bit of carb, in
your mind, you might think, well, that's
not that much. I'll just go right in the
fat burning maybe in an hour or two. No,
it could take 24 to 48 hours before
you're back in there because it takes a
longer process to convert and get into
fat burning. And it's easy to pop
yourself out. And this is important to
know because if every other day you're
having a cheat day or having a little
bit of a carb, that could be the reason
why that scale is not moving at all. All
right, number five. This is the secret
to losing as much weight as you want.
This is a root cause. Insulin
resistance. It's the root cause behind
type 2 diabetes, a fatty liver, obesity,
resistant weight, where you plateau and
you just can't seem to budge down below
a certain number, high blood pressure,
polycystic ovarian syndrome, and a lot
of other conditions. So, your weight is
the tip of the iceberg. Insulin
resistance is the iceberg. So, how do
you fix insulin resistance? You bring
your sugars down to as close to zero as
possible. You bring your hidden sugars
down as close to zero as possible.
That's the starches. That's the bread,
pasta, cereal, crackers, biscuits.
That's not sugar. That's a starch, but
really it's sugar cuz it's uh it's
easily broken down into sugar. So, these
two right here are will keep your
insulin high and that actually causes
insulin resistance. And then we have
seed oils. Seed oils can really invade
into the membranes in your body and
cause insulin resistance. And these
three ingredients are the most common
ingredients in all junk foods. So, of
course, we're giving up junk foods.
Having a fatty liver can also cause
insulin resistance. Next one is decrease
inflammation in the body because that
can also cause insulin resistance and
that's usually because of the seed oils.
So, replace that with omega-3 fatty
acids, fish oils, codive oil, fish,
sardines, shellfish. Very important. Get
as much sleep as you can. I'll put a
link down below if you're having
problems sleeping. I'll tell you exactly
what to do. You want to keep the stress
as low as possible. Long walks, avoid
toxic people, getting good amounts of
sleep will keep your stress lower. Okay?
And then exercise will help too. This
next one is very interesting because
post-meal exercise, going for a walk or
even going to the gym after you eat can
literally bring insulin resistance way
down. You can correct it very, very
fast. And when you're walking, you're
burning up all this extra sugar that
your liver is producing,
especially if you're diabetic. Stop
snacking. It's the snacking that raises
insulin that contributes to this. even
if it's healthy foods. So intermittent
fasting is very important. That's why I
always recommend like two meals a day,
no snacks or even one meal a day if you
really want to lose weight. Bourberine
works similar to metformin but without
the side effects. So bourberine is a
good herb to take to help insulin
resistance. Magnesium, vitamin D, and B1
are the three nutrients that will also
greatly improve this situation. I hope I
now convinced you not to focus on that
weight loss scale every day. Okay, but
now the question is, how did I put all
this together? The devil's in the
details. And for that information, you
should watch this video right here on
exactly how to do this program.
