Today we're going to talk about how to
never experience another menstrual
cramp. If you're female and you get
cramps, you're going to be so happy you
watch this entire video because I'm
going to give you not only a solution,
but a solution that gets to the root
cause so you could hopefully never have
them come back and not experience a side
effect from a treatment. What is a
menstrual cramp? It's a very painful
period. There's two types of cramps.
There is the primary type which is
idiopathic which means unknown cause.
They don't know what causes it. And then
there's a secondary type that usually
comes from something else causing this
menstrual cramp. Either a fibroid, an
ovarian cyst, or endometriosis, which is
just extra tissue that grows outside the
uterus and around different uh organs in
your lower abdomen. The problem with
heavy menstrual cramps is a lot of women
are taking NSAIDs for the pain, birth
control pills, Depo which is a synthetic
version of uh progesterone. And these
all have side effects. The actual root
cause of menstrual cramps isn't even
mentioned once. Okay? And I and I know
why that is. It's basically because it's
not part of medical consensus. the group
agreement which a lot of times is very
biased that influences these groups that
then form consensus. The problem is like
when you try to look up menstrual cramps
on Google or even Chut BT, you are not
going to find this. And so I'm going to
go through how I found out about it and
uh using various clues, but I found it
very entertaining when you look under uh
Wikipedia under the section alternative
medicine. This is what they said. There
is insufficient evidence to recommend
the use of many herbal and dietary
supplements for treating dysmenorhea
including melatonin, vitamin E, fennel,
dill, chamomile, cinnamon, damas,
rhubard, guava, and yuzara. A 2016
review found that evidence of safety is
insufficient for most dietary
supplements. So in other words, there's
no safety evidence on these natural
things. But what about the safety of
these drugs? If you do a compare and
contrast between drugs and alternative
care, there is a huge difference. I just
found it fascinating that they stuck
that in there because obviously they're
just trying to discourage you from
trying an alternative. There's some
evidence for the use of finugreek that a
2019 study found that herbal treatments
using bolyan and a few others may be
safe and effective in the treatment of
dysmenorhea. One review found thamine
that's vitamin B1 and vitamin E to be
likely effective and I I want to talk
about that for briefly because yes uh
there was one study it was quite large
it was a randomized control study it
included over 500 young girls in India
and they found they got dramatic relief
but at the very end of the study it says
well we don't know if this works with
other cultures maybe it just works with
people in India but I found that
fascinating They did take 100 milligrams
of B1 for 1 to 3 months and they got
great results. And there was another
study showing that vitamin E help reduce
cramps. We'll talk about the mechanism
of that in just a bit. It was found that
the effects of fish oil and B12 to be
unknown. Reviews have found promising
evidence for Chinese herbal medicine for
primary dismenoria. And so let's just
take you down uh a few clues to get to
this root cause. And basically all the
clues were actually in Wikipedia. The
first clue that I got from Wikipedia is
that painful cramps come from pain
chemicals. Okay? They're called
prostaglandins.
What causes these? They don't just
happen for no reason. And if you don't
know all the things that cause that,
then you're just going to basically take
an NSAID to reduce the pain. Number two,
vasop prein is something else that is
elevated when you have a menstrual
cramp. This is something that causes
contractions and decrease in blood flow
and it's kind of like this constriction
situation. And if you don't understand
what causes this, you just end up just
taking a medication to numb the pain
until the next month. The third clue
involves high parathyroid hormone.
There's a certain condition called
hyperparathyroidism
and some of the symptoms from that are
smooth muscle cramps, tetany, which is
like a twitching of the muscle and
spasm, which is interesting because the
parathyroid hormone makes the tissue
very hyper sensitive to contractions.
And there's a couple different things
going on. One is that the parathyroid
hormone has a job of mobilizing and
recruiting calcium from the bone. It's
taking calcium from the bone to put in
the blood because calcium always has to
be a certain level. Okay? So when it
does this compared to getting the
calcium from your diet, we don't have a
smooth transition. It's kind of erratic
and it can create these cramps we just
mentioned. But the point is when you
have high parathyroid hormone during
your menstrual cycle, you could be more
likely to get a cramp than if you didn't
have this. Okay, this is just another
clue. I'll come back to this in just a
minute. The other thing that's involved
in this painful cramp is much higher
inflammation because of this one little
thing right here. I'm not going to get
into the complexity, but you just need
to know it's like NF KB, okay? It's in
the uterus and you have more
inflammation. The next clue, black women
compared to white women. There's a 33%
more likelihood of getting severe cramps
and also a 3 to nine times increased
risk of getting fibroids.
So, that's just a little clue. We'll
come back to that. Here's the last clue.
Menstrual cramps are sometimes treated
with calcium channel blockers. We're
talking about something that causes
contraction. So, anytime you have a
contraction of a muscle, that means it's
caused by too much calcium. And so, a
calcium channel blocker is something
used with blood pressure to lower blood
pressure and not have so much
contraction. Well, what are we talking
about with a a painful menstrual cramp?
We're talking about too much calcium in
there. All right. Did I give you enough
clues of what the root cause is?
It's a severe vitamin D3 deficiency. Low
vitamin D3.
Now, how does this relate to all the
things I just told you? Well, vitamin D
downgrades prostaglandins.
Vitamin D also suppresses and reduces
vasopressin.
It counters this contraction. It
vasoddilates.
It opens up the blood flow. Let's go to
the next one. What does vitamin D do to
the parathyroid hormone? Oh my gosh. It
majorly controls it by bringing it down
because when you take vitamin D, you
absorb calcium from the gut. And there's
no need for your body to elevate
parathyroid hormone to mobilize calcium
from the bones. So when you have a high
parathyroid hormone, all that means is
you don't have enough vitamin D because
the parathyroid hormone is a surrogate
for vitamin D. And so when you have
enough vitamin D, you don't need this
going high and you have less contraction
of the smooth muscle because now we have
a normal calcium level in the blood. And
what's really interesting as a side
note, some people uh use the remedy
calcium gluconate for their menstrual
cramps because when you're taking
calcium, you're automatically going to
reduce this high parathyroid hormone and
then that massive spasm, that tetany,
that cramp is going to go away and it's
going to give you a lot of relief. But
you're going to be much better off going
with this, which is at hitting at the
root cause. Now, is there any
relationship between vitamin D and high
inflammation and also this thing right
here, NFKB?
Oh my goodness, yes. Vitamin D turns
this off. It's one of the most potent
anti-inflammatories.
So, it's going to reduce inflammation.
All right. What about this one? What's
the relationship between vitamin D and
black women? Well, melanin in the skin
acts as a natural sunscreen to block UV
radiation. And so, that's one of the
barriers for vitamin D. The darker the
skin, the more sun you need to penetrate
through that barrier so you can get
enough vitamin D. This also explains why
the fibroids because a fibroid is a
severe vitamin D deficiency just like
endometriosis and just like a cyst on
the ovary. And there's some really
interesting data to show that if you're
trying to shrink a benign tumor, you're
going to have to get your vitamin D
blood levels above 90 nanogs per
milliliter, which a lot of people don't
know about that. they keep their blood
levels between 20 and 30 or even 40.
It's just not going to be in the range.
Not to mention, if your estrogen is too
high or too low, that is going to affect
your vitamin D levels. You need enough
proper estrogen to be able to activate
vitamin D and also allow the vitamin D
to penetrate deep into the cells. So,
there's definitely this huge connection
between vitamin D and estrogen and
progesterone.
And now what about this calcium channel
blocker? Well, a natural calcium channel
blocker is magnesium. Magnesium
causes the opposite of contraction. It
causes relaxation. Anytime you have a
cramp, that means you need more
magnesium. And without vitamin D,
magnesium won't work. And without
magnesium, vitamin D won't work. So, you
need both of these. But the point is
that magnesium is a natural calcium
channel blocker. And also, if we're
talking about blood pressure, vitamin D
is one of the most potent things to
lower blood pressure. So, part of the
solution I'm going to recommend is
vitamin D with magnesium, but not with
additional calcium because we already
have too much contraction. Now, I'm
going to get into 13 scientifically
proven tips to help you never have a
cramp again. I'm really excited to bring
you a new children's book that we just
created called Lucy, Nora, and Freeman
on the Hunt for Real Food. Both Lucy and
Nora are my two grandkids, and I wanted
to create something for them to teach
them about the basics of real food. This
children's book differentiates real food
from junk food in a very unique way. In
this book, I go through a whole story
where Lucy is teaching Nora and Freeman
about the difference between junk food
and real food. What's really interesting
about this book is this is the second
version of it. The first version, I sat
down with Lucy to read it to her to
surprise her. And I was thinking that
she would be really excited about it,
but halfway through it, she stopped me
and she said, "Grandpa, there's too many
words in this book." I'm like, "Okay,
back to square one." So, I went back. I
simplified it a little bit more. I took
out some of the complexities and I made
it really, really simple so a
six-year-old can easily comprehend it
and learn from this. I also talk about
what to eat at a restaurant and also
give a couple recipes that a parent can
actually do with their kids to make some
desserts, very healthy. We have
shortbread cookies. We have vanilla keto
sponge cake, keto fluffy pancakes, and
we have yogurt popsicles. So, if you
have small kids or grandkids, this is a
great book to help teach them the basics
on what real food is because that way
you don't have to wait until they're a
teenager and try to make some changes.
It's best if you make the changes early
on so they have this knowledge and they
themselves can determine what's healthy
food versus junk food. All right, let's
go through the list right now. Number
one, you want to start taking more
vitamin D3. in the research involving
taking vitamin D3 in reducing menstrual
cramps, which by the way, there's quite
a bit of research. It's not in
Wikipedia, it's somewhere else. I'm
going to put those links down below
because you need to know about it.
There's two types of vitamin D. One type
for your bone and calcium. The other
type for all the other tissues including
the immune system, the uterus, the
muscles, etc. That system of vitamin D
is needed daily. Okay? You should be
taking vitamin D daily or getting sun
daily. And the amount that you should
take as a maintenance daily is roughly
between 6,000 to 10,000 IUs every single
day. That's like 20 minutes in the sun.
And because there's so many barriers for
getting vitamin D, not being outside,
not having sun exposure, uh being
overweight, maybe your skin's a little
bit darker, which you need even more
vitamin D, or maybe you have insulin
resistance, or you're pre-diabetic or a
diabetic, which really restricts your
ability to absorb vitamin D. There's
many barriers on top of even genetic
barriers as well. But the point is that
one of the studies used a oneshot
300,000 IUs of vitamin D3 just once a
month. The other study used 50,000
IUs every week. And the other
interesting thing about the research
papers that I was reading, they only
brought the vitamin D levels up to like
30 nanogs per milliliter. Now, from my
viewpoint, that's still too low. What
they should have done is added some
co-actors to allow them to work better
like vitamin K2, especially magnesium
and maybe even zinc. I just want to
mention that because there's really no
studies out there that are doing what I
just told you. They're kind of taking
either way too much or way too
infrequent uh the amounts of vitamin D
that you would need to create a positive
change. So, this is what I'm going to
recommend. vitamin D3 20,000 IUs
at least that every day with magnesium I
would take a magnesium glycinate because
that's the best absorbable form of
magnesium you absorb like 80% versus
magnesium oxide which you're only
absorbing like 3% of it and that's not
going to be very effective and I would
take these two every single day so it
can build up in the tissues and that way
when you go right into your period you
have the maximum vitamin D in the
tissues to prevent those prostaglandins
from going up, to keep your vasop prein
down, to keep your parathyroid hormone
down, and to keep the inflammation down.
Now, on top of that, highly recommend
you go on a low carb diet, a healthy
version of the ketogenic diet. Why? So
that way, we don't have to deal with
this other barrier with absorbing
vitamin D and magnesium, which is
insulin resistance.
Okay? If you can improve insulin
sensitivity, you will also improve your
absorption of vitamin D3.
When you have insulin resistance, you
have high insulin and vitamin D is not
going to be going in or being absorbed
near as well. I mean, just take a look
at a diabetic. They're not really
absorbing near as much vitamin D as they
need. Parallel with this low carb, you
want to do intermittent fasting. So, you
don't want to be eating six meals a day,
three meals with two snacks. You want to
maybe do two meals or even one meal
because the less frequent you eat, the
faster you're going to improve this
insulin sensitivity and thus increase
your vitamin D absorption.
Number five, there's some fascinating
data on cod liver oil and RCTs,
randomized control studies, work as well
as ibuprofen
without the side effects for menstrual
cramps and has been used for a very long
time even in the medical profession for
all sorts of health problems in the
early part of the century. Okay, number
six, vitamin E. And you can get vitamin
E from eating leafy greens, salads, and
certain nuts and seeds. If you take it
as a supplement, I would recommend
taking the type of vitamin E called
tocatrinols, not the tcopherols, because
the tocatrinols just work a lot better.
And then number seven, we talked about
B1 in that trial. If you consume
nutritional yeast on your salad, that
will give you not only enough B1 that
can help the nerve sensitivity issue and
the actual pain, but also can give you
B6 and the other B vitamins that can
actually contribute to improvement in
that area. The best source of replacing
the iron is red meat, not from a pill.
The other thing, number nine, is zinc.
Zinc is also necessary to help you
absorb vitamin D3 as well as reduce pain
from menstrual cycle issues. And you can
get the zinc from the red meat. It's a
really good source of zinc and iron and
some of the B vitamins. Number 10 is
regular exercise has been shown to
reduce this risk of menstrual cramps.
And then number 11 is fenugreek. There
was a a randomized control trial that I
saw that compared fenugreek a natural
thing to NSAIDs but without the side
effects. So that's another remedy you
can look at. Number 12, just using a
heating pad. I would use one of those
bladders with water and heat it up and
hold it over your lower pelvis right
where the uterus is because this therapy
also was comparable to NSAIDs without
the side effect. I mean that's an
awesome therapy and 13 ginger was also
comparable to NSAIDs on a randomized
control study. Now that you understand a
lot more about this root cause of
crampy, painful periods and how to deal
with it, the next most important video
for you to watch is on the details of
vitamin D3 and magnesium. So, I put that
video up right here. Check it out right
now.
