Let's talk about why magnesium might not
be working for you. So many people take
magnesium, but they actually are not
even feeling the effects of that
magnesium. They still deal with
insomnia. They still deal with fatigue,
high blood pressure, heart palpitations,
leg cramps, anxiety. Today, we're going
to talk about eight magnesium mistakes
that are super important that don't
necessarily directly involve magnesium,
but they involve things around
magnesium. It's the system around it.
Because if you don't really understand
this, you could be taking it for years
and not see the results. Magnesium is
hands down one of the most important
minerals for the entire body. It's
involved in over 300 different
biochemical reactions. It helps you
control heart rhythm, blood pressure,
sleep, energy, insulin that helps you
control blood sugars. Magnesium is vital
for nerve function, mitochondria,
especially in the making of ATP. So,
let's start where the mistakes begin.
Okay. number one thinking magnesium
works by itself and all you need to do
is just take magnesium and it'll work.
Not true. The most important helper
co-actor is vitamin D. And also on the
flip side, in order for vitamin D to
work, you also need magnesium. They both
are dependent on each other. And I'm not
talking about just the regular amount of
vitamin D that people recommend like 600
IUs. You need at least 4,000 5,000
10,000 IUs of vitamin D3 to have
sufficient amounts for magnesium to
work. And that brings us to another
point. So many people are deficient in
vitamin D. They don't even know it. And
that could be the reason why they're
expressing magnesium deficiency
symptoms. Not only because they're
missing magnesium, but they're also
missing vitamin D3. But it doesn't just
stop there. Vitamin B6 is also necessary
for magnesium to get into your cells.
You also need another mineral called
potassium for magnesium to work. And out
of all the minerals that you need, you
need large amounts of potassium, like
4700 milligrams per day. Rarely does
anyone get that much. So, a lot of
people are deficient in potassium as
well. Now, another mineral that's needed
for magnesium is sodium. A lot of people
get enough sodium, but when you go on
the low carb diet, you lose a lot of
fluid and with that you lose a lot of
sodium. So, some people have symptoms of
weakness in the muscle when they start a
low carb diet because they need more sea
salt. But just realize you need salt to
also make magnesium work. Let's go to
number two. Ignoring cell membrane
damage. Remember I said that most of the
magnesium is inside your cell? Well, in
order to get inside the cell, it has to
get through this membrane right here.
And a lot of people have damage in the
membrane. And so then the question is,
what damages the membrane? The big one
is seed oils. An average person consumes
between 20 and 25% of all their calories
from seed oils. Corn oil, soy oil,
canola, cotton seed, concentrated fats
that ancient man never consumed in
abundance. And they're highly processed,
which means they create inflammation,
but they have the ability to embed in
your membranes. They also mess with the
receptors for insulin, creating more
pre-diabetic situations, and so they
really overload the cell with something
called omega6, which is more
inflammatory. In order for that
magnesium to get in the cell, you need
good membranes. And this is why when
someone stops consuming seed oil, it
doesn't just solve the problem
overnight. It takes literally like 600
days for all of that to be cleared out
so those membranes can start working
again. And I think also one symptom of a
problem with the cell membranes is your
arteries are rigid and you have high
blood pressure. That's a clarifying
symptom that you might have problems
with the membranes because the inside of
the body is very very brittle and stiff.
Number three, understanding stress and
what it does to magnesium. Stress is
like causing a body reaction, okay? It's
more of a body reaction than an emotion.
It's shutting down your digestion. It's
lowering your immune system. It's
decreasing blood flow to certain organs,
especially the stomach. This is why
ulcers can be triggered by stress. That
then increases the demand for magnesium
and the loss of magnesium at the same
time, creating a magnesium deficiency.
You're just going to need more
magnesium. Also, when you consume more
caffeine, you lose magnesium. And so, if
you're stressed, anxious, overworked,
wired, you're going to need magnesium.
Next one is taking the wrong type of
magnesium. The most common magnesium
that people take when they go to the
drugstore and buy it is magnesium oxide.
It's the worst. You only absorb 3% of
it. A much better form of magnesium is
magnesium glycinate. This is magnesium
attached to glycine, which is an amino
acid that will increase GABA in your
brain to help you sleep and be calmer
and you absorb like 80% of that. There
are other forms of magnesium that are
good. I did a whole video on that. I
will put a link down below if you want
to learn more about that. But the
magnesium that I take is magnesium
glycinate. Number five is you are
blocking the absorption of magnesium
without even knowing it. Some common
blockers taking too much calcium. If you
take a look at the average multi one a
day, the first ingredient is calcium
carbonate, the worst form of calcium.
It's like limestone. It's like eating a
rock. In a lot of those supplements,
they don't even have magnesium, but too
much calcium will inhibit the absorption
of magnesium. If you take high doses of
zinc longterm, that can inhibit
magnesium. fluoride from the water and
fluoride treatments can also block your
magnesium. Aluminum can block magnesium
and also ant acids and acid blockers can
block magnesium. Low stomach acid, a lot
of people have that. You need this
strong acidic stomach to absorb
minerals, especially magnesium, and that
could be the reason why you're low on
magnesium because you don't have enough
acid in the stomach, in which case you
should take something called betane
hydrochloride. Number six is thinking
that the RDAs for magnesium are going to
be therapeutic.
When they came up with these RDAs,
it was just basically levels to
prevent a disease. And by the way, they
were designed 100 years ago. They
haven't been updated. These RDAs were
not designed to create a therapeutic
effect. So, one of the biggest problems
in the area of nutrition is how much do
you need? What about if you're trying to
correct a major deficiency? you need
larger amounts, a therapeutic dosage. I
mean, especially when you're talking
about vitamin D3, you probably need, you
know, 20, 30, 40,000 IUs of vitamin D3,
but the RDAs for magnesium are roughly
between 400 460, but those are not
therapeutic healing dosages. 400
milligrams is just enough to kind of get
you by to prevent a major problem, but
they're not designed to fulfill all of
your machinery for energy, your sleep
quality, to overcome insulin resistance,
to actually try to correct arrhythmias,
atrial fibrillation. If someone has a
major problem like a Charlie horse and
they take 400 milligrams, they might not
see much change unless they go up to
800, 1,200, or even sometimes 1600
milligrams per day. And just as a side
note, if you're taking larger amounts,
don't ever take all of that at one time
because your body only can absorb a
certain amount at a time. break it down
into smaller amounts and spread it
through the day between three or 400
milligrams at a time and then just
spread it out. That way you can actually
start increasing more amounts if you're
trying to create a therapeutic effect,
especially if you're under stress or you
have some type of illness, some type of
chronic problem. Number seven, having
unrealistic expectations. And I kind of
just touched on that, but sometimes
people have this idea that all I have to
do is just take a little bit of
magnesium and all my symptoms will go
away right away, instantly because it
works like a drug. No, it does not work
like a drug. Vitamins and minerals are
helper things in biochemistry. And if
the biochemistry is broken, it takes a
while to get that to work again. You
can't create a drug effect with vitamins
or minerals. And also, it's not just
about feeling like getting more energy
or an instant relaxation of a muscle
because there's a lot of other things
related to magnesium that you can't
really feel like rebuilding tissue or
repairing or healing something. It's a
very slow gradual thing that you're not
going to even perceive for weeks. like
refilling your intracellular
storage of magnesium to help balance out
calcium to help saturate certain
receptors that help reduce your stress
level. And magnesium is also involved in
a lot of repairerative actions as well.
I know with me personally, I had a major
magnesium deficiency and I had these
cramps that would wake me right out of
bed and they would literally just in the
early morning just start cramping up and
my toes would come down like this. And I
took magnesium, but it didn't really
work right away. So, it took some weeks
before it got better. And as a side
note, a lot of people ask me what
supplements I recommend.
I have a line of high quality
supplements. If you want more
information about that, you can go to
amazon.com and search Dr. Berg
supplements. Number eight, the missing
insulin connection. It's where you
consume a lot of carbohydrates or you
eat frequent meals or you snack and then
all of a sudden insulin doesn't work
anymore and what's happening in the
cells is you're developing insulin
resistance. That alone will block the
absorption of magnesium and also if you
have a magnesium deficiency you're more
likely to develop insulin resistance in
the first place. So it goes hand in
hand. And this is why a pre-diabetic, a
diabetic, someone with insulin
resistance should not just take a
regular amount of magnesium. They should
take more than usual. And on the flip
side, when they're on low carb, they
lose a lot of fluid. They lose more
electrolytes sometimes. So they need to
take magnesium, sodium, and potassium to
kind of keep up their electrolytes for a
different reason. I have a free download
that I want to give to you. This free
download is my daily routine in a
checklist. This is a routine that I use
every day to feel like I'm 18 years old
even though I'm 60 years old. And I want
to give it to you for free. And so
there's a little link down below. Click
it and definitely download that. Now, I
only touched on two forms of magnesium.
I think it's a very important topic. I
created a video that covers all of the
different types of magnesium. I made it
really simple. It's not a long video.
You should watch it. I put it up right
here. Check it out.
