Today I'm going to talk about why you
can't resist stuff like this. The food
companies, especially junk food
companies, have a big problem. There's
no profit in whole food. There's no
profit in selling meat and eggs and even
milk and cheese. Especially if you're
doing grass-fed and you're doing high
quality eggs, there's no profit on that.
The margins are so slim. A farmer makes
like maybe 1 or 2% if they're lucky.
What did they have to do to solve it?
They had to give you something that gave
you a much greater pleasure sensation
than real food. So that's called hyper
palatability. So appealing that you
can't resist it. So number one, they had
to make food irresistible. Number two,
they have to make sure that you're never
fully satisfied. Okay? Because if you're
satisfied, then you'll just eat one or
two or three or four, right? But with
these and with all this other food, you
cannot just have a few. This is the
anatomy of an addiction. Now, how do
they do this? Well, they combine a
couple things. First of all, they have
to create what's called the bliss point.
What's the bliss point? It's a special
combination of ingredients. Flavor
scientists have spent a long time to
figure out what perfect combinations of
sugar, starch, seed oils, salt, and
flavoring to hit this maximum pleasure,
especially after you consume all the
sugar and starch and it affects your
blood sugar. Now, we're dealing with a
body addiction because the artificial
flavor chemicals are very, very
different than natural flavor chemicals.
In other words, these artificial flavors
create way more intensity, like 300
times more intensity than natural
flavors. So, the intensity of these
flavors bombard the brain with so much
stimulation. And if you do this multiple
times, you're going to have memory of
these foods. And so, you're going to be
driving down the street and you're going
to see a Thai restaurant and you're
going to drive in there because your
brain remembers this pleasure. And if
you're going through stress or you're
tired, that's going to kind of give you
some relief when in fact you're actually
going to be causing more stress to your
physical body and your brain because
when you do this over and over and over,
you start developing dopamine resistance
because the junk food is virtually empty
of nutrition. There's like nothing left.
There's no phytonutrients, there's no
vitamins, there's no minerals. Now, they
will spray a couple synthetic vitamins
to give you the sensation that you're
getting something. and they'll probably
put on there, oh yeah, the orange juice
has vitamin C when it's just you just
put a little ascorbic acid on there. But
in reality, there's like no nutrition.
And there's one more thing about all
this food that is missing, and that is
protein. They don't have any protein. A
person will continue to eat
carbohydrates and other things until
their protein requirement is satisfied.
These foods are not actually foods
because the definition of food is to
give you energy, sustain life. Can the
ingredients in these foods actually do
that? I don't think they can. I want to
just share something with you. By the
time you see this video, we should be
done with this app. And I don't know if
you could see it. It just kind of whites
out too much. But I have this app. It's
a free app. I'm just going to show you
what it does. You just press scan. Okay.
And you put it up to the barcode. Bingo.
It actually measures how much sugar,
starch, and seed oil without doing
anything else. So you can really
identify those three nasty ingredients
in most of this junk food at a quick
press of a button. And so the intention
of this app is to use it in your
refrigerator, in your pantry, in your
family's refrigerator, in their pantry
to really be aware of what you've been
eating. We'll put a link down below so
you can download it, but it's a free
app. It's pretty cool. So let's talk
about some of the most fake foods in the
world. Okay, I'm going to go through
these. Number one, barbecue potato
chips. When you actually deep fry
starches, you get this chemical acryum.
Not good. And then they also add
chemicals like monos sodium glutamate.
It creates a lot of fluid retention
because it's a lot of hidden sodium. And
so why do they put it on foods? Because
it increases the savory sensation. It
makes the food taste better than it
really is. Next one is all the cheese
pops. Like the cheese corn. Now, you
might think, "Oh, yeah, they're just
like dehydrating some cheese and then
sprinkling it on popcorn." No, no,
they're not. Very rarely do they ever
use real cheese. Instead, they use
cheese flavoring. And there's a lot of
things in this pop cheese corn in the
flavoring and also the ingredients in
the flavoring. You might have heard
about malttodextrin, but if we compare
maltodextrin, which is a starch, to a
sugar, maltodextrin is not classified as
a sugar. If you keep these ingredients
under 0.5
grams, a half of a gram, that's 50
milligrams, you can list them as zero.
Yeah, that's right. So, when you see
sugar-free or even consume a lot of this
junk food, you're getting a lot of
hidden maltodextrin, trans fats, and
definitely sugar. And also, maltodextrin
is classified as a complex carbohydrate.
You know, we think complex carbohydrates
are healthy. Not all of them. All right,
the next one is plant-based
meats. Okay, these are what's called
clean meats, which they're anything but
clean. Plant-based meats. You're using
all sorts of similar chemicals and
hidden junk food and sugars just like
any of the ultrarocessed foods that you
would see at the grocery store. And one
big thing that they'll do is they'll use
a very inexpensive proteins, soy protein
isolate. This is a very highly
industrial processed ultrarocessed
protein that has virtually no flavor.
But there's a lot of marketing to get
you to eat plantbased everything. But
again, you're not going to see a push to
eat actual plants because there's not
much profit in actual green plants that
are grown in soil. I want to touch on
lab-based meats. To my knowledge,
they're not out yet. They're coming out
and they're it's not going to be a vegan
product because they're going to have to
use cells from an unborn cow's fetus and
then they're going to extract that and
put it in a huge container and try to
get it to reproduce. And apparently
these cells are immortal. Okay, they can
live on forever. Very similar to cancer.
But presently it's very expensive. They
have not figured out a way to reduce the
cost. what they're doing now to create
this demand is to try to wipe out or
give actual beef a black eye. Thus, the
attack against red meat and cows and
these farmers. But I think the next one,
fast food restaurants, is what I loved.
I pull up in one of those restaurants
and I would notice that there's this
huge line down the street. There is a
ton of MSG and there's a lot of flavor
chemicals and they even put things in
the pickles, right, to keep them in a
certain color and a certain taste, but
it's all artificially good. Then we get
to maple syrup. Real maple syrup is very
expensive to extract from a tree. It
takes a lot of work. It's much cheaper
to make artificial maple syrup and
that's what they do. They use either
high fructose corn syrup or dextrose or
glucose syrup with flavorings. I want to
mention olive oil. Extravirgin olive
oil. A good percentage of the olive oil
in United States, especially the extra
virgin olive oil is diluted with other
cheap oils and maybe with a little bit
of olive oil in there. Next one is
imitation crab. At one point, I did not
think there was a difference between
real crab and imitation crab. I would
buy the imitation crab at the grocery
store because it was cheaper. So, what
they do is they'll take codfish, right?
And then they'll also add a starch and
flavoring. So you're getting this
artificially flavored crab. It's not
even close to crab. Then we get cheese
products. There's no cheese in here. We
won't call it food. It's like a a
product of some sort. This next thing is
not a food, but it's just an ingredient.
Artificial sweeteners. I want to mention
this because they're artificial. They
affect the microbiome.
They affect the mood. They have this
sweetness, but without the calories,
right? Well, okay. So, it doesn't have
calories. So, does that make it less
damaging on our blood sugars? The answer
is no. Because indirectly it can affect
your blood sugar. It can create insulin
resistance. And if you had a choice
between artificial sweeteners and sugar,
I I would just eat the sugar. I want to
mention honey. Real honey is an amazing
miraculous product that has all these
different phytonutrients and chemicals.
But then you have fake honey, which is
made from high fructose corn syrup or
glucose syrup with flavoring. And then
lastly, I want to mention the
plant-based milk. Okay, first of all,
soy milk, oat milk. Do you realize that
there's not much soy or oat in this
milk? It's just like maybe 2% almond or
soy and then the rest water and
carrageenan, which actually been known
to affect your gut. And then flavorings.
And I if you have an addiction, I'm
sorry, a craving for some of this junk
food, you should probably watch this
video right here.
