Today we're going to talk about the
number one most dangerous fat in the
world. And then I'm also going to tell
you some of the healthiest fats in the
world as well. So we're going to go
through a whole list, but I need to give
you a little foundational information
before we get to that. I'm going to make
it super super simple. So you don't have
to know chemistry or physics. Okay? So
what you need to know is that oxygen is
super hungry for electrons. And when we
get into fats, there's a lot of
different types of fats. you have
saturated fats. What's unique about
saturated fats is they're very very
stable and they don't really react very
much with oxygen because they don't have
any double bonds. And that's as as deep
as I'm going to get. When you have
double bonds, you have something that's
more unstable. Oxygen is going to go
after things that have more double bonds
and you're going to have more oxidation.
Then we get into these fats called
unsaturated fats. And all I want you to
know about unsaturated fats is there's
different numbers of these double bonds.
You have monounsaturated fats and mono
means one. It only has one double bond.
Polyunsaturated
many double bonds. So the
polyunsaturates
are going to be more unstable because
they have more double bonds and they're
going to react with oxygen more than
monounsaturated fats. And this is why if
we just do a quick comparison with mono
and poly, we're dealing with mainly two
fats, avocado oil and olive oil. And 75%
of that fat is monounsaturated. So it
only has like one double bond. So those
are definitely more stable. They're not
as stable as saturated fats, but they're
a lot more stable than these
polyunsaturated, which have a lot of
these double bonds. And that would be
like corn oil, sunflower oil, safflower
oil, soy oil, canola oil, cottonseed
oil. Then let's talk about hydrogenated.
In a lab, they can actually turn
unsaturated fat into a saturated fat.
And so when you see hydrogenated oils
like margarm, you're dealing with
something that's synthetically made. If
you just take a look at these fats as
being a wall in your house, saturated
fats would be all these solid bricks
that really support the whole house. But
then we have a monounsaturated wall
which has like one brick that's kind of
weak. So mostly it's supportive, but
certain areas of that wall are maybe
slightly fragile. But then we have a
wall that is polyunsaturated. There's a
lot of bricks in there that are very
fragile and that wall is vulnerable to
oxygen basically. And then if we have a
hydrogenated wall, we're dealing with
trans bricks which are these weird bent
bricks vulnerable to falling apart. And
this would be the worst wall. They've
been phasing out these partially
hydrogenated fats. I think they still
have a lot of hydrogenated fats, which I
think are equally as damaging in junk
food, in other foods. And then when we
get into saturated fats, we're talking
about like butter, lard, pig fat, or
tail, which is beef fat. Okay, those are
pretty stable fats. At room temperature,
they turn into a solid. And then when we
get to the monounsaturated, we're
talking about mainly avocado oil and
then olive oil. But at this level in the
presentation, all you need to know is
that if you consume coldressed avocado
oil or coldressed olive oil, super
healthy and beneficial, but when you
start refining them, you get more
problems. And when we get to the
polyunsaturated, we're getting to an oil
that's very unstable and there's many
areas to attack. The big problem with
fats right here is when you heat them.
Most of these oils that you buy at the
store are already heated when you buy
them. Okay? And then we take them home
and then we heat them again. You make
them even more dangerous to the body.
And also light too tends to break them
down and turn into this other byproduct.
I'm going to give you this name now.
It's called an eldahhide that destroy
your DNA, but mainly they lodge into the
membranes around your cells. And even if
we took the receptor for insulin which
is on the outside of this membrane and
we expose it to aldahhides we start to
destroy that receptor. And this is one
of the deeper root causes of insulin
resistance, pre-diabetes and diabetes
which is so common nowadays simply
because 25% of all of our calories are
these oils. not in a cold press, you
know, unrefined way, but in an
industrial refining way, physical
grinding, bleaching chemicals, and then
a deodorizer to put them in a bottle. So
then they can stay on the shelf without
even being refrigerated. So you're
dealing with something that has a lot of
these aldahhides that can literally
lodge into our bodies in a massive way
and stay in there for a long period of
time and create inflammation. And so
they're going to start to destroy the
DNA, the membranes, the receptors,
which are proteins around this cell.
They're going to create inflammation,
chronic inflammation. They're going to
make the cells stiff and fragile. The
oils that they're frying the food in,
they keep reusing the oil over and over
and over. There is no regulation for the
number of times you can use an oil. So,
it's really up to whoever owns that
store where you're eating food that has
been bathed in this oil which are super
inflammatory for your cells and we eat
this without even thinking twice mainly
because people don't even know what's
going on here and they accumulate in the
body. But there's another type of
unsaturated fat in this category and
that would be fish oil and cod liver
oil. There's some really unique
differences. First of all, they both
have omega-3 fatty acids, but the ratios
of omega-3 fatty acids, and I'm talking
about DHA to EPA in cod liver oil, match
your brain retina, your mitochondria and
your immune system, much closer than
fish oils. And cive oil retains many
additional antioxidants. So, cive oil
has many additional benefits over fish
oil. So before I get into the most
dangerous oil in the world, I want to
just talk a little bit about what's been
inverted or flipped in our food supply.
Saturated fats. Saturated fats were at
one time, very recently, thought to be
very, very dangerous. They're going to
clog your artery. You should stay away
from saturated fats. And now there's
more evidence that saturated fats are
okay to eat. But for years, decades,
saturated fats have been villainized.
And the unsaturated fats have been
recommended as something to improve your
health when in fact the truth is they've
always been at the root cause of heart
disease. So these unsaturated effects
were at one time praised to be the hero
to save us of all the health problems.
These are really the bad guys and they
always were. I mean then what about
cholesterol, right? I mean any food that
has cholesterol like eggs was once
considered to be bad. But then we all of
a sudden find out that, wow, eggs
actually increase the good cholesterol
and decrease the LDL, the bad
cholesterol. What an interesting
inversion on that. And what about the
healthy grains? Right? Even still to
this day on a box of cereal, it'll say
hearthealthy grains when in fact we know
most the grains sold are refined, turn
into sugar. Grains have gluten which
destroys the gut. And then what about
red meat, right? that's been demonized
as even causing cancer because they lump
the red meat into the processed meat as
it's one thing and they both basically
cause cancer. When in truth, when you
have the carnivore diets, so many people
are being healed of many of their
diseases with autoimmune diseases, with
gut inflammation diseases, we're talking
about one of the most healing foods on
the planet. Yet, at one time it was
demonized as a bad thing. What about
salt? Right? I mean, most people know
that too much salt is bad for your blood
pressure. But did you know that 90% of
high blood pressure has an unknown cause
that's not related to salt? Interesting.
I think it's a potassium deficiency or a
vitamin D deficiency because even salt
sensitive people that really react with
too much salt, when you increase the
potassium, they do just fine. In fact,
when you start cutting down the salt on
someone, their cortisol goes up. From my
viewpoint, salt has never been the
villain, even with blood pressure. Now,
let's get into the most dangerous fat in
the entire world. All right, the
absolute worst fat in the world for your
body is the partially hydrogenated fats.
This is a unsaturated fat, very
unstable, that's been converted into a
saturated fat. Chemically,
synthetically, it's not healthy. This is
a trans fat, which is a a weird fat that
does all sorts of bad things in our
body. But then you get into the question
of what about hydrogenated fat? It's
super processed and it comes from an
unsaturated fat with really high heats
with a hydrogen gas and a metal. So
these two right here you need to stay
away from. And these two are the worst.
This one right here, I'm going to tell
you right now, these polyunsaturated
fatty acids used for frying in a fast
food restaurant. Hands down the worst
fat in the entire world because you are
accumulating so many eldahhides every
time you fry that. They get in their
body and they lodge into our membranes
and it takes 600 days to get them out.
Number four, soy oil. Most people that I
know have never even heard of cold press
soy oil. It's usually refined and it's
sold already as heated and people then
heat it again. So, you're getting a
product that is genetically modified. It
probably has traces of glyphosate. And
then corn oil is in the same boat, also
genetically modified. And then number
six, sunflower oil and safflower oil.
Now, I know they positioned those two
oils as being heart healthy, but not the
refined version. Cotton seed oil is like
a byproduct of the cotton industry. It's
in the same boat as these other ones
right here. It's GMO, so it has
glyphosate, and so is canola. That's
also genetically modified. Grape seed
oil is very high in the polyunsaturated
fats. It's usually always refined. Same
thing with rice brand oil. Same thing
with refined peanut oil. But then we get
into refined avocado oil. And so when
people buy avocado oil, they're
thinking, "Wow, this is much healthier."
But when they heat it, they literally
are creating aldahhides because they're
wiping out the chlorophyll and the
vitamin E and anything in there that's a
phytonutrient. And one thing that's
really interesting about the avocado oil
industry, it's not very regulated. They
put other oils in there that are almost
impossible to detect. Even the
mayonnaise that you get that says
avocado oil. You have to read the back
of the label. It will never say
coldressed. Okay? So, you're getting the
refined version. Then you get refined
olive oil, right? I would stay away from
that, too, because again, they're
heating it, destroying all these
wonderful phytonutrients that are there
to protect it. So, I'm going to take all
these as being kind of bad. And then now
we're going to get into levels of good
or bad, okay? Like lard, for example,
there's conventional, but then there's
also pasture-raised, okay, which is a
lot better. Really depends on the
quality or the type of lard you're
getting. But conventional, well, they're
going to feed tons of grains to that
pig. So, you're getting more grains,
omega-6, and more of these. They put
seed oils in there as well. Tallow,
that's B fat. Conventional, same thing,
grain-fed, right? But if you do
grass-fed tail, that's much healthier.
Coconut oil, you have refined coconut
oil. You have virgin coconut oil,
coldress, so that's much better than a
refined coconut oil. You have
conventional butter and grass-fed
butter. So there's different levels of
quality. Then coldressed avocado oil.
This also is super healthy. 75%
monounsaturated fats. It's very unlikely
you're going to get hardly any
aldahhides. It has luteine, which is
good for the eye and the brain and the
prostate. It's loaded with vitamin E.
And so, this might be a really good
salad dressing. You just don't want to
heat it. And then we get to cold pressed
extra virgin olive oil. You're dealing
with a lot of phytonutrients that have a
lot of benefits for your heart, for your
tissues, for your brain. Both of these
right here have two really powerful
phytonutrients that will help lower your
inflammation.
These don't. Now, I know people are
going to ask me, "Well, what am I going
to use to fry food in?" The problem with
using high heats, it tends to create
problems with anything that you're
cooking with it. Now, you know, the
world's worst fat. The next video that's
probably even more important is the
world's worst carbohydrate. And we're
not even talking about sugar. And I put
that in this video right here. Check it
out.
