I'm back again to share another video
titled the number one worst protein in
the whole world. If you've ever heard
about this organization called Eat
Lancet, planetary health diet, they have
this idea that the entire world needs to
be on a plant-based diet and really
reduce down your red meat to just a tiny
little bit, maybe a few times a week.
And of course, replace that with plant
protein. Depending on who you ask and
especially if you ask this group right
here, the worst protein in the world
would be animal meat, especially red
meat, and of course processed meat like
bacon and hot dogs. But what I'm going
to show you today will make bacon and a
hot dog look like a super healthy food.
Okay, so I'm going to see if you could
guess what this protein is. I'm going to
go through the list. Number one, hint,
it's an industrial extraction from
defatted soy flour. What does that mean?
It's an ultrarocessed
ingredient where they're extracting soy
flour and of course they take out the
fat using a solvent called hexane.
Hexane is one of the ingredients in
gasoline. And sometimes you'll hear this
argument where someone will say no
hexane is not a problem because it just
evaporates from the food right away. But
they have to use the solvent to extract
certain oil from this soy. And they use
it with other things too, just to make
seed oils. Okay? So they use hexane. And
my question back to them is, show me an
independent study that shows that
there's no residue of hexane in these
foods. There is none. In fact, what
you're going to find out is this
ingredient is considered gross,
generally recognized as safe. That's a
loophole because industry can very
easily do their own studies or stamp of
approval and say it's safe when there's
really no independent research. I mean,
think about it. Let's just take a bucket
of hexane and dump your food in it,
right? And let it evaporate and then go
ahead and eat it. Would you eat it? No.
Someone can tell you, "Well, it
evaporated and it's no longer there."
But personally, I don't like eating
things that have been soaked in hexane.
But that's just me. Number two hint is
the byproduct of the soybean oil
industry. And when I say byproduct, it's
kind of like the waste product. And of
course, industry is always finding
creative ways to turn their byproducts
or waste into something that's
profitable. And of course, with this
ingredient, someone had a bright idea.
Hey, why don't we just turn this thing
into an ingredient that we can put into
foods? I mean, you think about it. the
sewage treatment plants had a problem
with what are we going to do with all
this sewage sludge and so they paid this
company $300,000 and that company came
up with a brilliant name called
bioolids. It sounds pretty good. But
then they took that product and they
sold it to certain companies as a
fertilizer as an organic fertilizer to
help the soil. When you're buying like
your potting soil and things like that,
look on the label. Sometimes it'll say
bile solids. Well, now you know that's
sewage sludge, the byproduct of this
sewage plant. Anyway, when you get into
like commodities like corn and soy and
things like that, they're always trying
to find ways to reinvent different
portions of those products. But this
ingredient is the byproduct of soybean
oil. They have found heavy metal
contaminants, lead, arsenic, and
cadmium. Number four, thermo
mechanically restructured. What does
that mean? That means the process that
they use to make this product is they
use temperature and they use certain
machines to mechanically restructure
this product. So they heat up this
product and push it through this small
nozzle which creates a very interesting
effect on the other end. and it actually
will puff up this protein because what
they're trying to do is mimic the
texture of meat. They use very high
heats at 200째 C, which is 392째
F. So, they take this soy, they extract
the oil using hexane, which is a
solvent, and then the next phase, they
heat it up, and then they mechanically
restructure it. And currently this one
ingredient
produces over a billion dollars a year
and it's classified as a meat substitute
sold to vegans and vegetarians. Now
what's interesting is this ingredient
has been around since the 1960s and it's
marketed in the health food stores as
something that's healthy as a meat
alternative. And let me share a couple
things online. Not only is this
ingredient high in protein, but it's low
in cholesterol and saturated fat. So
therefore, it's heart healthy.
Fascinating. It says, "Are there any
downsides of this ingredient? The main
disadvantage of this ingredient includes
high levels of processing which can lead
to a loss of some beneficial nutrients
from the original soy. It can also
contain residual amounts of processing
chemicals like hexane, and it's high in
sodium content can be an issue for some
diets. Additionally, some individuals
may experience digestive issues or
allergic reactions. What is the
unhealthiest protein? According to
Google, one of the worst sources of
protein is processed meat, hot dogs, and
bacon. Fascinating. But apparently, this
protein seems to be okay according to
them. But I'm not even done yet. I'm
just getting warmed up. Check this out.
Number seven, they put sodium hydroxide.
This is lie. This is something that is
super alkaline. So they're going to
change the pH to start altering these
proteins. They're adding this super
alkaline substance and then they also
will later on in the process add an
acid. So they're really manipulating
these amino acids. Number eight, they
have to add hydrogen peroxide or
titanium dioxide to bleach this product
so that way they can actually color it
correctly. And also as a side note, they
have to add chemicals to deodorize it.
Number nine, now that we have these
spongelike chunks of protein, if you
want to call it protein, they rehydrate
it, okay, with oil. What kind of oil?
Additional seed oil, okay? They'll use
like canola, maybe corn oil. And now we
have this oily cardboard that basically
tastes like cardboard and we have to
flavor it. And so they'll add a meat
flavor, they'll add chicken flavor, they
might add pork flavor. And we're not
just talking about one flavor chemical.
We're talking about it could be 50 to
100 different chemicals to create the
perfect ideal taste of meat. So it kind
of explodes into your brain actually.
Now in the flavoring, they might add
flavor enhancers, too.
They have to color it. And then finally,
they have to dry it out at 175째 C or
347째
F. So, they're actually heating it
twice. One thing you need to know about
soy, there are certain anti-nutrients
that can get destroyed with heat, but
certain things don't get destroyed with
heat, like the estrogenic effect of soy.
So, if you have a thyroid condition or
you're on thyroid medication, you should
not be consuming this product within
four hours of consuming your medication
because it can alter your medication
because soy has an estrogenic effect and
that can actually affect your thyroid.
And the marketing is going to be
incredible because it's going to say no
cholesterol, no saturated fat, high in
protein. So, this is now a health food
product because we all know that
saturated fat is the real root cause of
heart disease. And it's really wild
because if you compare this ingredient
to animal protein that is loaded with
iron, zinc, other trace minerals, B
vitamins, high quality protein, there is
absolutely no comparison because this
ingredient is textured
vegetable protein. When they say
vegetable, we're talking about soy. So,
it's textured soy protein. It is a
highly refined ingredient. It's super
processed. It's filled with chemicals,
heavy metals. Not to mention, it's a GMO
product. Most soy is genetically
modified, and it could have residues of
glyphosate. And what's really wild is
this eat Lancet Planetary Health Diet
program is telling you not to eat red
meat, but this is totally okay. and so
is pea protein, rice protein, and soy
protein isolates. That's totally fine as
long as you don't have red meat. And
when I was creating this video, I was
really comparing and contrasting
textured vegetable protein with soy
protein isolates because soy protein
isolate is also a very poor quality
protein, which also has exposure to
hexane. But soy protein isolate ends
with a powder. this textured vegetable
protein starts to add more heat, more
mechanical restructuring, more
flavoring, coloring, bleaching, etc. So,
out of all of the worst proteins in the
world, it's the textured vegetable
protein that is at the top of the list.
Now, to contrast that with the
healthiest protein in the world,
you got to check out this video right
here.
