The great water lie. That's what we're
going to get into. This is one of those
topics that everyone knows is true. I
used to push it on people when I was in
my clinic. You need to drink eight
glasses of water a day. Today we're
going to get into the background of
where that actually came from. And
somehow we completely neglected our
body's communication to us, which is
called thirst. But what I'm going to
tell you out loud is this. There has
never been even one single clinical
trial that has established how much
water we need to drink to be healthy.
That number eight glasses of water that
we keep repeating our entire life came
from a footnote someone misread from
1945. People were asked on the street,
how much liquid do you drink per day?
And based on that one survey, it came
out to eight glasses of water. And that
has become our mantra. In 1945, the Food
and Nutrition Board of the National
Research Council published a set of
dietary guidelines and buried in this
document was one short paragraph about
water. It said this, "A suitable
allowance of water for adults is 2.5 L
per day." So, if you stop reading right
there, you probably think, okay, well,
it's roughly about eight glasses of
water. Case closed. But the very next
sentence said, "Most of the quantity is
contained in prepared foods."
Apparently, no one really read that next
sentence. And that changes everything
because if we do the math on that, an
average person gets roughly between 700
milliliters to one liter of fluid from
their daily food. And of course, if
you're eating more fruits or vegetables,
you're going to get more liquid. An
apple, by the way, is 86% water. A steak
is 60% water. A cucumber is 95% water.
And on top of that, your body actually
can make a certain amount of water. It's
called metabolic water. We're possibly
generating over a liter of fluid every
single day. And of course, there's a lot
of other variables that are never
calculated in that. For example, how
much someone weighs. So, does a person
of 300 lb versus 100 pounds consume the
same amount of liquid? Does a person
that exercises two hours a day versus
sedentary, do they consume the same
amount of liquid? What about a person
that consumes a bit more caffeinated
beverages, which tends to create more of
a diuretic effect? Do they consume the
same amount? So, this entire eight
glasses of water a day came from one key
figure, Dr. Frederick Stair, who was the
founding chairman of nutrition at
Harvard University. And he did say you
can include coffee and tea and milk and
even beer. Then in 2002,
a kidney specialist named Dr. Hines
Bolton did something nobody has ever
bothered to do. He went looking for the
actual clinical evidence and he
published a thorough review and it was
this. No scientific studies were found
to support the eight glasses per day
rule. What he found was the surveys. I
mean, it's really bizarre to me that the
entire world is following this without
really even knowing where it came from.
And this happens with many different
areas of health. I remember long ago
doing a live show and a nutritionist
called in and I was talking about this
topic and she just let me have it. She's
like, "You don't know what you're
talking about. You are harming people,
telling people that they don't need
eight glasses of water a day." And I
never actually said that, but it was
just amazing how programmed people are
on this eight glasses of water a day
because what this eight glasses of water
a day turned into is you need to drink
before you're thirsty because by the
time you are dehydrated, it's too late.
And there's a lot of nutritionists and
even dietitians that'll tell you to
drink a lot more than this a day just to
make sure you never get dehydrated. even
saying to drink a gallon of water a day,
and I'm not kidding. When you get into
this, well, everyone knows it's true,
but then you can't really find out where
this information came from. The bigger
point I want to communicate is that our
bodies have a built-in system to tell us
when to drink, and it's called thirst.
But apparently somewhere down the line,
this whole thirst thing is kind of like
just ignore that. Don't even worry about
that. You want to drink before you're
thirsty. As soon as you start losing
just a little bit of fluid, there is a
hormone, it's called vasop prein that
will start telling your kidney to hold
fluid. Our bodies are designed to adapt
to situations where we don't have water.
I mean, if you just take a look at our
past environments, famine, drought, lack
of food, lack of water, our bodies have
adapted to that. And now it's such a
mismatch because we can drink just
constantly all day long. The reason I
don't like that is you're bypassing your
body's sensation for thirst. Should we
eat when we're not hungry to prevent
starvation? Well, look where that's
gotten us. The drink more industry. The
global bottle water market is now worth
over $290 billion a year. Americans
consume nearly 16 billion gallons of
bottle water every single year. Then you
have the sports drink industry, right?
In 1965, Gatorade came on the scene.
Created at a time when there wasn't much
public evidence that Gatorade actually
worked. But following that was a
national campaign to convince you that
exercise causes dangerous dehydration
and that the thirst is unreliable and
their product is the cure. So in 1992,
Gatorade paid the American College of
Sports Medicine $250,000. A year later,
they co-hosted a roundt exercise and
fluid replacement. And the key message
that came out of that partnership, drink
before you are thirsty. Now, think about
that for a second. The industry that
sells beverages funded the guidelines
that told you your own thirst can't be
trusted. Researchers tracked down
something called water turnover, which
basically means the total amount of
water cycling through a body per day.
And they did this on 5,640 people, okay?
Across 26 countries ages 8 to 96 years
old, okay? Using a very specific
technology to detect water loss from
your body. What was the result of water
loss from urination, humidity? It ranged
from one liter loss per day to a six
liter loss of fluid per day. This is a
massive range of water exiting your
body. And one liter is like four or five
cups of water. Okay? And six liters is
six times that. So the liquids people
need are really dependent on your age,
your body size, your climate, your
physical activity, how much manual labor
you're doing. Your body also gives you
other clues that you need more water. If
your urine is a little bit darker, that
means it's too concentrated. You should
probably drink some more water. If your
urine is completely clear, okay, that
means you're drinking too much water.
And if it's clear, you're also losing
and flushing out your electrolytes.
You really need your urine to be a pale
straw color. Now, I know some people are
going to say, "What about kidney stones?
Shouldn't we drink a lot of water to
prevent kidney stones? The best way to
prevent kidney stones is to have enough
magnesium in your body. That's the
antidote to kidney stones. And of
course, if you drink 2.5 liters a day,
if you're prone to kidney stones, you'll
keep your urine diluted enough to
prevent kidney stones. But that's a
whole different topic. So, a lot of
people ask me, "What supplements do I
recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not
biased of my own highquality supplement
line, but if you go to Amazon and type
Dr. Berg supplements, you'll find more
information. But here's my bigger point
about this whole topic. It's a condition
called hyponetriia.
What is that? Low sodium in your blood.
And this is way more dangerous than any
type of dehydration situation. In 2007,
a 28-year-old mother of three named
Jennifer Strange entered a radio contest
in Sacramento. She drank nearly two
gallons in 3 hours. and a listener
called in to warn the station that she
could die from water intoxication.
Jennifer died the same day. In 2005, a
study from Boston Marathon found that
13% of finishers had hypoia.
Researchers now showed that every year
more athletes are injured from
overhydration
than dehydration. I want to just touch
on the quality of water that people
drink as well. In city water, they use
chlorine and other chemicals. In fact,
there are over 600
chemical byproducts in city water,
unfortunately. But the EPA only
regulates nine. So, you absolutely
positively must get some type of water
filter if you have city water and do not
drink just regular tap water. Then you
have water softeners, right? Where
they're taking out calcium and magnesium
out of the hard water like well water,
which by the way, they found that people
that drink well water or spring water
that has more magnesium in it, it lowers
your risk of heart attacks. But soft
water doesn't do that. In fact, long
ago, we got a lot of our magnesium from
the hard water from the streams and from
wells and things like that. So, I am not
against water. I am against forcing
yourself to drink water when you're not
thirsty. And since we're on the topic of
water, there's a fascinating video I did
on alkaline water, which is supposed to
be good for you. But to get the truth of
that, watch this video right here. Check
it out.
