Today we're going to talk about how to
reverse your eyesight and get rid of
these right here. If you're anything
like me and you sat behind the computer
desk for many, many years staring in
front of a computer, chances are you're
probably wearing these right now. I'm
going to show you some information that
is going to make you very happy because
there's a good chance you're not going
to need these. And I'm not only going to
be talking about poor eyesight. I want
to talk about a lot of different
problems that can go wrong with the eye,
including increased pressure of the eye
itself, what to do with dry eyes or
irritation underneath the lid, and also
a problem with your lens, which is
cataracts. There's some great remedies
for all of these things. We're going to
go through them, and I think the first
place to start is sharing some
fascinating information
where this whole problem starts. And it
actually starts with the cones. Now, I
need to explain a little bit of anatomy
so you can understand what the cones
are. I don't know if you remember ever
learning about rods and cones. Those are
little receptors in the eye that take
information or light and they convert it
to signals so you can visualize things.
And so cones are more responsible for
daylight, color, and fine detail. rods
had to do with more peripheral vision
and seeing in the dark and also like
shades of gray and things like that. So
the real simple basics are we have this
cornea which is this little dome-shaped
thing right here that does help to focus
light a little bit as the light comes
into the eye and then it goes through
the lens right here and you have two
little muscles right here that cause the
lens to get thicker and more elongated
and that allows you to accommodate for
distance so you can actually focus on
something far away or close up. It's
called the accommodation reflux and that
has to do with the lens and the muscles.
And so the lens normally should be very
flexible. But as we get older, it
becomes very rigid. So we'll talk about
that. And then as the light comes in, it
travels right into the exact back part
of this eyeball right here. The retina
is this complete back part right here of
the eye. The entire thing. Think about
the retina as wallpaper on the back of
the eyeball. and it's connected to this
nerve that goes deep into the brain
called the optic nerve. So retina is the
extension of your brain right here. So
it's going to capture a lot of
information and then a lot of this
information is being focused at this
point right here. This is called the
macula right here. And then a lot of the
focus on this smaller part of the macula
is called the phobia. Not that you need
to know that but the phobia has even a
smaller section that things are focused
on almost the size of a grain of sand.
In that location, you have the most
concentrated cones of anywhere in the
eye. And why that is significant is
because there's something very unique
about cones that will explain a lot of
problems that you might be having with
poor vision. The unique thing about this
photo receptor, the cone, is this. It
has the most mitochondrial pack cells in
the entire retina. So we start off young
having a tremendous amount of
mitochondria. This is so dense. We get
older and older and older. We start
losing the mitochondria and now we can
no longer see finer details of things.
Uh colors are not as bright. We need
glasses to see even in the daylight and
especially at night. So, if we look at
all of the factors that relate to poor
vision, this one single piece of
information just jumps out and slaps me
in the face. Massive loss of
mitochondria in the back part of the
retina, the actually most important area
of your eye that you need to be able to
see without glasses. When someone
reaches 60 years old, and by the way,
I'm 60 right now, they need three times
the light to be able to see. if you
compare to a 20-year-old. So why is
that? Because in order to see it takes a
tremendous amount of ATP energy from the
mitochondria. And so there's a couple
different stages that we go through.
Number one, contrast sensitivity. The
brain's capacity to differentiate light
intensity starts to break down. And so
at night when you're straining to see,
you're having a problem with this
contrast sensitivity issue. And that
would be uh the first thing that
happens. The second thing that happens
is in order to be able to even see
during the daylight, we need a little
more light. So we have to turn on the
light to be able to see things. Before
when we were younger, we could just read
it practically in the dark. Now we have
to shine a big light on it. Number
three, we start seeing more glare in the
dark. Okay. Everything starts to really
get foggy and uh it's like it's kind of
dangerous if you're driving when it's
raining out and especially foggy. It's
uh it's not good. And then number four
is when you start having more problems
with the macula. They call that age-
related macular degeneration.
And what's happening is you're losing
more mitochondria in this area right
here. And now you really can't see uh
fine detail. So you need these right
here. There's other problems with the
eye as well uh with the lens. You start
developing this opaqueness where it's
becoming cloudy. That's called
cataracts. We'll talk about what to do
in just a minute on that. And then also
when you are looking at your computer
screen, you're fixated in a certain
position, maybe two or three feet away
from you
for long periods of time. And so now
when you get up to look at things, boy,
everything is blurred. And then there's
a condition called gluccom which we have
a lot of pressure in the eye. Before we
get into what to do, I just want to
mention type 2 diabetes. The eyes are
very susceptible to blood sugar
problems. In fact, this is why a
diabetic has problems with the retina.
It's called uh retinopathy which is a
disease of the retina. And this is why
one of the leading causes of blindness
uh comes from diabetes because of that
high sugar going through the
bloodstream. And that's what happens in
the lens. And that's really what
cataracts are. I want to mention another
great amazing book that's really hard to
find. I think he could only find on
Kindle. The author is Dr. Harold Shell.
And he found that high doses of vitamin
D3 can reverse gluccom, but you have to
get your blood levels up to like a
hundred. Okay. Now, for some people
that's like, oh my gosh, that's way too
much. But if you read his book, it's
fascinating because he gets into how to
do it correctly, how to do it safely,
and he also talks about a lot of other
eye problems that can be improved with
higher doses of vitamin D3. It's a
fascinating read. I will put a link down
below of that book. So, now let's talk
about what you can do for the eye to
reverse these situations. It's red light
therapy. There's a right way to do it
and there's a dangerous way to do it.
And I'm going to explain both, but
there's a tremendous amount of new
research on this, and you're actually
exposing the retina to red light. So,
why does red light have anything to do
with the retina? It helps to make the
mitochondria more efficient and also
correct some of the damage in that
mitochondria. They found that you can
optimize the mitochondria with this
specific uh wavelength 670.
And what's really cool about the
simplicity of this therapy is you're
going to be doing this for 3 minutes
only in the morning once a week because
apparently the effects last a whole
week. But there are so many devices out
there right now that you don't even know
if they're really at the right
frequency. You don't know how powerful
they are. Uh they're not really
regulated that well. What can you do to
safeguard that and still get the
benefits? Well, the first thing is I'm
going to recommend closing your eyes
when you put this light into the eyes.
Okay? Keep your eyes closed. Even though
there's some references that say, "Oh,
it's not going to hurt you." Keep the
eyes closed. infrared can penetrate
through your eyelids very easily. I'm
going to put some links down below of
several devices that have this thing
right here. It's IEC 62471
exempt or RG1 lowrisk. And but I'm also
going to put a couple other links of a
couple other uh red lights that don't
have this, but they're designed for
babies and they're just one little bulb
and they are specific to this frequency
right here. So I think they're going to
be pretty safe, especially if you keep
your eyes closed. And the reason I want
to put that there is because those bulbs
are extremely inexpensive. I think they
might be I don't know $5 to $8. But this
technology is called photobiio
modulation. There'll be more and more
research on this, but I think it's quite
exciting, especially if it can help your
mitochondria in your cones, in your
retina. So, if that's your problem, that
could be a great solution. Is there a
way to make more mitochondria in the
body? And yes, there is. Regular
exercise. Okay, long hikes, walks,
things like that where you're getting a
lot of oxygen. But I would venture to
say that any exercise would be better
than no exercise. Also, intermittent
fasting because we know when you have
diabetes, you destroy the mitochondria
and we create eye problems. What is the
opposite of diabetes? Having a low blood
sugar and running your body on ketones.
So, you want to do a low carb ketogenic
diet with intermittent fasting with a
lot of sleep. Number three has to do
with most people are staring at screens
for quite some time and so they're
focused on a very close object and we
need to reverse that because the your
eye muscles are in a contraction and
that's really going to affect your
ability to focus and see things by going
outside and looking at something in the
distance for at least two hours a day.
something out of your house because in
your house you don't have much space.
Here's the thing that a lot of people
do. They go for a walk, they're on their
cell phones, they're not looking at
objects. So, the key of this whole thing
is to be able to focus in on a tree
branch, a leaf, a dog or a bird, or
something out there in your environment
and keep looking at it and focusing out
there for a period of time.
That would be very very therapeutic to
undo this contraction and also at
different distances like maybe 20 feet
and then like look at a you know a cloud
in the distance and try to focus in on
it. Very therapeutic. I want to talk
about number four. There is a genetic
problem converting beta carotene into
vitamin A which is going to affect the
eye because one symptom of a vitamin A
deficiency is night blindness. So our
eyes need vitamin A. Let me give you
some ideas on where you can get enough
vitamin A. Egg yolks, liver, cod liver
oil, butter. And the other thing to
realize is if you have a bad liver,
let's say you have a fatty liver or
cerosis or you don't have a gallbladder
anymore or you have a gall stone or you
have a a gallbladder problem or you have
inflammation in your gut, you might not
be able to even absorb vitamin A. So
that's another factor I wanted to bring
that up. Let's talk about number five.
Luteine and zeazanthin. Both of these
can help you see better. Both of these
protect the eye against oxidation. So,
they're very protective. They're very
necessary. They also protect you against
too much UV radiation. These two
phytonutrients are also in kale. They're
in pistachios. They're also in Swiss
chard. There's actually more of it in
kale and Swiss chard in pistachios than
egg yolk. But in the egg yolk, it's way
more bioavailable. So you're actually
going to get more of it if you consume
egg yolks than these other things. So
it's not just the total amounts, it's
how much you can absorb. Let's talk
about number six, floaters. If you have
floaters, that means you have uh damaged
proteins that are floating around in the
eyeball. So getting your body in a state
of autophagy is going to be the smartest
thing to do with that. How do you do
that? You just you start doing
intermittent fasting and then you fast
longer. Like you might go 48 hours, wait
a couple weeks, and then you go like 72
hours. When you start doing prolong
fasting, your body's going to go into
this recycling mode and start cleaning
up damaged proteins, and those floaters
are going to go bye-bye. Now, number
seven, I did touch on gluccom a bit ago
with Dr. Harold Shell. I'm going to put
a link down below with his book, but he
recommends taking higher doses of
vitamin D3 with K2 and magnesium to help
get rid of gluccom and he gets great
results. I have found there's some
research on also taking niacin. Let's
talk about cataracts and that usually
comes from consuming a lot of sugar.
Hidden sugar is like starches. As you
clean up the diet and you get rid of the
junk food and you do intermittent
fasting, there's a great remedy that
works fantastic with cataracts, animals,
and humans. You have to search it out.
NAC as a natural remedy. It stands for N
acetal carnosine. This comes in drops
and you put it on the outside of your
eye, the cornea. It gets absorbed. it
goes right into the lens and it breaks
up and dissolves those those little uh
glycated proteins. So, it's super
effective of reversing cataracts. I'm
not going to guarantee it's going to
work for you. I don't know what stage
you're at, but it's worth a shot,
especially since it's not that
expensive. There are other things that
can prevent uh cataracts. going on a low
carb diet. Benotamine,
carnosine is another thing that's really
good, but you can get carnosine when you
have red meat. It's loaded with
carnosine. Saffron is a fantastic
remedy for age related macular
degeneration.
It has been found to improve vision. I
don't want to go too far into the
details, but it's another remedy that
works really good for the macula. Now,
number 10 is get a reading light if
you're over the age of 50 because in the
process of doing all this, it's going to
take some time. And if you wanted just
to see a lot better quickly, you can
just get a good light. Uh, I'm going to
tell you the light I'm going to
recommend. It's called a high CCT warm
light LED between 3000 and 4,000K. Okay?
You can just do a search on that. And
you want that light facing the surface
or the book you're reading or the
computer that you're looking at. So the
light is enhancing your ability to see.
11. Super important. This is a sunlight
hack. If you were to watch the sunrise
or uh watch the sunset and not look at
the sun, but look around the sun and
allow uh some of those rays to get in
your eyes, you would be doing a version
of this right here. You're going to
reset your circadian rhythm much better.
You're also going to generate uh more
intracellular melatonin, which is going
to help you sleep. It's a powerful
antioxidant that does a lot of other
things. Very therapeutic. Let's talk
about number 12. This is called the desk
reset. And the way to remember this is
202020 rule. Okay? If you're sitting at
your desk all day long, like today I had
to do a lot of research on different
things. I was at my computer for at
least uh 10 hours so far. So every 20
minutes I have a window and I'm going to
look 20 feet out and focus on something.
Ideally, it'd be good to go outside. And
I I have taken breaks today and and went
outside. And what you do for 20 seconds,
you focus on something 20 ft away.
Anyone can do that. It's super
therapeutic and it kind of reverses that
uh accommodation cramp that you have in
your eye. Now, while you're doing this,
okay, for 20 seconds,
every five seconds, you want to blink.
Every 5 seconds, you want to blink as
you're doing this, as you're focusing.
Why?
Because when you're in front of the
computer, not only do you not blink as
often, but you don't completely blink
all the way down, and your eyes can dry
out. And that drying can cause fatigue
in the eyes. So this is another thing
that's actually very very important that
also relates to number 13, which is dry
eye. Being in front of your computer can
really dry your eyes out. Also, a lack
of vitamin A will cause dryness of the
eye. But there's one other cause of dry
eye that I need to make you aware of,
and that is a a problem with the
autonomic nervous system. When you are
deficient in vitamin B1,
the autonomic nervous system doesn't
work that great anymore. And that system
controls the smooth muscle that controls
your glands. And for this example, I'm
talking about the tear ducts. You're
going to have a lack of secretion of
tears and that's going to dry them out.
And the antidote is B1.
But you must also correct the reason why
you're deficient in B1. a lot of
carbohydrates, diabetes type one,
drinking a lot of coffee or tea can
really deplete you of B1. And then the
last point I want to talk about is these
advanced glycated end products. This is
that glycation when sugar connects with
protein. Uh this happens when you
consume a lot of junk food and things
like that. But there's things that can
reverse that. Going on a low carb diet,
doing intermittent fasting. Another
thing you can do to reduce this is
alphalapoic acid reduces AES. And again,
this can also help if you have an
advanced uh visual problems uh involving
your lens being very rigid or you have a
lot of complications from diabetes
anywhere in your body or you have
advanced uh cataracts, you need to be
doing all these things I'm mentioning.
Exercise is a big one as well.
polyphenols like certain herbs like uh
turmeric, resveratrol and even dark
chocolate. But probably the number one
most powerful thing that can help you
with this as well as other problems of
the eye is vitamin D. Vitamin D is one
of the best anti-inflammatories. It
helps break this up. Always make sure
you take magnesium with your vitamin D.
And if you really want to know what
vitamin D does in the body, not
necessarily with diseases, but actually
what it actually does, there's a
fascinating video that I want to share
with you right now, and it's right here.
Check it out.
