So, what really happens when you consume
mold and fungus? Of course, most people
are not going to eat moldy bread. But on
cheese, a lot of times it'll start
growing this mold or fungus, and people
will be concerned. Is that going to
affect my health? I'm going to tell you
right now, no. It won't affect your
health in a negative way because it
doesn't produce a byproduct like other
mold or fungus will do. You're not going
to get that from cheese, but you can get
it from things like moldy peanuts, rice,
grains, especially corn, dried fruit,
and even coffee. The toxins in these
foods can really mess up your liver,
even cause cancer. When you're exposed
to a deadly fungus, you need to be aware
of what it is, how to prevent it, and
how to get rid of it if you get it.
There are a lot of health conditions
that involve fungus and mold, chronic
sinus infection, toenail fungus, white
film on your tongue, skin rashes, and
definitely cravings for sweet because
the fungus and the mold or the candida
love sugar and also hidden sugar like
the refined starches. Sugar, especially
high fructose corn syrup, can also lower
your immune system. to prevent this
problem. If you've been following my
channel, you know about grains and just
not to consume corn, grains, rice,
starches, things like that. Now, let's
get into the real reason why you might
have mold or fungus growing on your body
or inside your body. It's not that you
ate something. It's going to be mainly
because of something that happened to
your microbiome. In the microbiome, you
have mostly bacteria and the fungus,
mold, or yeast doesn't normally bother
you at all. It's kept in check by the
bacteria by just not allowing them to
spread. That bacteria is like the police
officers. And because they're just small
amounts, they're not very very
unfriendly. They become unfriendly when
they overgrow when you destroy the
bacteria. How? Antibiotics. Antibiotics
kill bacteria, but they don't kill
fungus. The second one, steroids. That
also just shuts down your immune system
and allows this bacteria and fungus to
take over and grow. If you even think
about what is the remedy for yeast or
fungus, it's steroids. And the other
problem is it destroys the entire immune
system, not to mention your microbiome.
Be very careful about this predinazone
because it's a slippery slope. Sometimes
you really really need it, but try to
use as little as possible. I'm going to
talk about what to do to repair the
damage from not just antibiotics, but
from steroids like predinazone, the
natural form of predinazone, which is
cortisol, from stress, like a sudden
loss of a loved one or some relationship
that can actually shut down the immune
system and deal a lot of other damage as
well, including damage to the heart. The
next one is iron. If you have too much
iron, if you're cooking in an iron
skillet, taking iron supplements, you
are just feeding these pathogens.
Another one is alcohol. Yeast, fungus,
mold love alcohol. I'm sorry, I'm just
the messenger. Also, the pH is very
important. And this is why fungus, mold,
yeast do not like acid because as soon
as you change the pH, you can actually
suppress those organisms. Another thing
like kombucha tea, it might be good
because it's lactic acid. It's very
acidic to prevent the growth of these
yeast, fungus, and mold microorganisms.
When the body becomes too alkaline, um
the fungus and the candida start to dig
their roots deeper. They can grow more.
And it's very very sneaky because it has
the ability to downgrade or block your
vitamin D receptors. without sufficient
vitamin D actually caused by this toxin
blocking that effect your immune system
cannot work. So it's a survival
mechanism because somehow it has the
intelligence to know that if we can shut
down your vitamin D then you can't fight
us to solve this problem of all those
conditions I mentioned take more vitamin
D to penetrate or overcome this
resistance. Anytime you're taking
vitamin D, make sure you take magnesium
and K2 with it and also zinc, which is
the next topic I want to talk about
because if you're deficient in zinc,
your thymus can't work. The thymus, the
training camp for the tea cells start to
shrink. The other equally important
trace mineral is selenium. When someone
is deficient in selenium, you can set
yourself up for easily getting an
infection. If you happen to feel that
you're being poisoned by this mold, you
want to get activated charcoal and start
taking that. Maybe some bentonite clay
to help absorb it. Also, there's a
product out there called chlorophyllin,
a version of chlorophyll. It's in a
liquid tends to help neutralize that
effect. Cruciferous vegetables help
because of the certain chemicals in it
like sulfurophane. Also, NAC is a
product you can take to help the liver
counter this damage. You may also watch
the video when I talked about when you
consume a dark roast coffee. The dark
roast coffee has much lower mold and
byproducts from the mold. Also, when you
consume organic dairy or grass-fed
products, a really good supplement to
take which has amazing benefits is
something called propololis. This is
something that bees make. It's an
amazing
immune regulator to help um strengthen
your immune system, but it's also a very
powerful anti- fungal, anti-microbial.
And it wouldn't hurt to take MCT oil
from coconuts because of the lauric acid
that can also help. Just to put the
icing on the cake, you want to I
shouldn't talk about icing on the cake,
but you want to add probiotics,
probiotic foods, sauerkraut, kimchi to
replenish your gut microbes. If mold
hijacks your health silently, wait until
you find out what wheat does every
single time you eat it. These are things
that are never talked about, never
emphasized. Many people have never heard
about them before, but they're very
important to know about. This is
actually going to blow your mind. Watch
this video right now.
