The number one most dangerous fiber in
the world is
refined fiber. What the heck am I
talking about? Refined fiber. We spent
many, many years studying refined sugars
and refined carbohydrates, right? Starts
off with sugar cane with all the
different vitamins and minerals and we
strip it off and then we have this
refined sugar and we find out it's bad
for us. Well, when we talk about fiber,
fiber is not for us as humans. It's for
our microbes. And we're doing the same
exact thing we did to our bodies with
refined sugar as we're doing to our
microbes with refined fiber. Certain
fiber in its whole form can feed the
microbes and make them thrive. Other
fiber that's refined is basically junk
food for the microbes. The information
I'm going to share with you, you
probably never heard. It's fascinating.
You need to know about it because right
now there is such a fiber craze.
Everyone's like trying to get as much
fiber as they can. And for a lot of
people, it's creating a lot of problems.
And there's some fascinating research on
this topic, too, where they're feeding
mice refined fiber. And some of them are
developing liver cancer. More on that in
a little bit. But the study was
published in Cell, one of the most
prestigious scientific journals in the
world. And I'm going to walk you through
why that happens. When you eat a bean or
an onion or a berry, you don't just have
fiber sitting in there. Okay? That fiber
is physically bound to something called
polyphenols. So in other words, when
you're eating plant fiber, it's not just
coming as fiber. It's bound to something
else very, very tightly. Maybe you've
heard about polyphenols. They're in red
wine. They're in berries, green tea,
dark chocolate. But that's the least
interesting thing about them. Here's
what you need to know. Every single
planet Earth has polyphenols. And
they're literally woven together with
fiber like this. Okay? They're bonded in
the cell wall. When you eat them,
they're supposed to travel all the way
through your digestive system down into
your gut where your body then breaks
them apart. But they're meant to be
consumed as one package,
not separate things. And it's very, very
important to know that one concept
because these trillions of microbes have
evolved over millions of years to
receive information from this one unit
itself and not just fiber. So when you
eat a plant, this whole unit goes into
the body. The microbe receives it as one
unit and the polyphenols are trapped in
the fiber. They're the ones that decide
which bacteria get to thrive and which
ones get shut down. And this is
definitely what the fiber supplement
industry does not want you to know. I
don't even know if they know it
themselves, but the polyphenols are like
the air traffic controllers. They're
like a guidance system for what happens
to this fiber. So think of your colon
like this airport, right? And you have
all these flights going on and that's
all the bacteria and certain bacteria
want access to the runway and of course
all of them want fuel. When you eat the
whole fiber with all these polyphenols
attached, then you get direction on what
microbes actually get the fuel and how
much fuel they get and make sure also
they don't get too much fuel.
Fascinating research published in the
journal of nutritional biochemistry
showed that when gut microbes break down
polyphenols, the beneficial species
multiplied while the ratios of bad
bacteria dropped significantly. So the
polyphenols weren't necessarily just
feeding the bacteria randomly. They were
selectively promoting the good bacteria
and suppressing the bad bacteria. And
the microbes that got promoted and got
fed, they made short chain fatty acids.
This is the fuel for your colon cells.
And in a 2025 review in Frontiers and
Nutrition, they confirm this across
multiple human trials. When people ate
foods rich in both fiber and
polyphenols, things like nuts or spices
or whole grains, they consistently grew
more microbes that make these short-
chain fatty acids. the anti-inflammatory
effects were much much stronger than the
group that just got the fiber and also
the group that just got the polyphenols
alone. These two things work together.
They both amplify each other. So the
fiber is the fuel for the microbes. The
polyphenols are the direction, the
guidance system of what happens to that
fuel and who gets the fuel and how much
they get. When you remove the
polyphenols and you get refined fiber,
I'll give you some examples like chory
root fiber extract, okay? Or soluble
corn fiber or tapioca fiber. These are
refined fiber. This is like
ultrarocessed food for your microbes
because they don't have the polyphenols.
And the way they make this is the same
way they make industrial starch and
sugar. They're adding chemical
processing. They're adding certain
enzymes to break things down. They're
adding heat. They're basically refining
it. They have to use heat and chemicals
and enzymes to break this bond. So then
you're left with this pure fiber fuel
without the guidance system, without the
air traffic controller. A researcher at
Penn State named Vishel Singh put it
very simply. He said, "When we eat fiber
from whole food, we're consuming a
mixture of many different types of fiber
alongside the compounds." Now, here's
the thing. If you actually start reading
the ingredients and toing up how much
fiber is like in a fiber bar, they put
in 15 grams of fiber. If you took 15
grams of fiber from real food,
equivalent to having 2 lbs of food as
fiber, that's a lot of fiber hitting the
gut all at once. And we're talking about
isolated fiber without the guidance
system. So, what you're seeing in the
food system right now, because the food
industry has to keep the right texture,
the mouth feel, they're trying to find
substitutes for fat. And so now they're
going to all sorts of synthetic fibers.
And what you have to realize is all of
this fiber is refined. It's processed
fiber and it's being put in food in very
large amounts. So, what happens is
you're going to get a lot more
fermentation, which is going to
overwhelm the microbes. So, a lot of
people ask me, "What supplements do I
recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not
biased of my own high-quality supplement
line, but if you go to Amazon and type
Dr. Bberg supplements, you'll find more
information. So, when you consume
refined fiber, there's three things that
happen. Number one, the wrong bacteria
take over because remember, you don't
have the guidance system of who gets
what. Number two, the fiber is going to
ferment way too fast in the wrong place.
Now, this is critical with whole food.
It's a slow process of breaking things
down. But in refined fiber, it's already
broken down. By the time it hits the
small intestine, where you really don't
want a lot of fermentation, if any,
that's where you're going to start
getting fermentation. And this is a
really big problem. They call it small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth. And I
don't know if you know this, but we
don't want a lot of bacteria in the
small intestine. We want it mainly in
the large. Then number three, the lower
colon starves. It doesn't get the fiber.
It doesn't get the fuel it needs. So,
what is it going to do at this point? It
has no choice. It's going to have to eat
its own mucous layer. Now, we get leaky
gut. Now, we start developing autoimmune
issues. Now, we get inflammation in our
gut and pain and all sorts of GI issues.
So in 2018, researchers at the
University of Toledo published a study
in the journal Cell, one of the most
respected scientific journals in the
world. They fed mice a diet containing
inulin, which is a fiber. Guess what?
The mice developed liver cancer. When
those mice were fed the same amount of
inulin, but inside a whole foodbased
fiber diet, not the refined one, there
was no cancer in that group at all. Now,
this was an animal study. It wasn't on
humans. But still, it gets us to start
thinking about what this refined fiber
is actually doing to our bodies. We
don't need another ultrarocessed refined
fiber for our microbes. So, what should
you do? Stop focusing on trying to
increase your fiber. Start eating foods
that are naturally colorful, the
polytheals.
Eat whole foods. Add fermented foods to
support the gut. Avoid high-fiber
supplements. I would not recommend
consuming any of these high-fiber
supplements that so many people are
sucked into and they don't realize
what's happening to their bodies. And so
adding more fiber just makes it worse.
They probably need to do carnivore for
at least a couple months to do a reset
and get rid of the thing that is
actually causing that excess
uncontrollable fermentation. But at
least now you know one of the mechanisms
of how it actually starts is by
consuming this refined fiber that's in
so many of our foods. Since we're
talking about fiber and the microbes, if
you want to know about how to fix gut
damage itself, I created a video right
here that will be very helpful. Check it
out.
