The only five supplements you actually
need. If you've been watching my channel
for any period of time, you've probably
noticed something. I mean, I've done
7,000 videos. And in one video, I'll be
talking about vitamin D, and the next
video, I'll be talking about zinc, and
then bile salt, and then potassium, and
then sea kelp, and then nutritional
yeast, and then purified bile salts, and
then apple cider vinegar, and then milk
thistle, and tocotrienols.
And so, if you're watching all these
videos, your head's probably spinning
because I'm talking about so many
different supplements. And some people
might be like me, the human guinea pig,
that wants to test certain things out
and take additional supplements. And
then, before you know it, you're taking
a lot of supplements. And so, in this
video, I'm going to just take a step
back and I'm going to talk about
foundational supplements. I'm not going
to talk about situational supplements,
okay, in this video. But, I am going to
talk about what is unnecessary for most
people with supplements. I want to just
reset and just give you some really
basic things on what most people need.
Number one, vitamin D3 and K2. It's
impossible to get your vitamin D from
food.
You can get it from sun if you live in
certain parts of the world and you
really let yourself be exposed to the
sun. A lot of people don't do that. In
modern society, we just don't get enough
sun. And if you have darker skin, you're
not going to get enough vitamin D from
just a little bit of sun. If you live in
the north, that's going to restrict you.
If you're overweight or have insulin
resistance, or you're pre-diabetic or a
diabetic, you're going to be low in
vitamin D. The RDA is the bare minimum
you would need just to barely get by.
They're not based on creating a
therapeutic effect if you're trying to
correct something. And there's been a
tremendous amount of research since they
developed the RDA for vitamin D. It's
completely ridiculous to take 600 to 800
IUs of vitamin D3. You're never going to
get your blood levels to the place where
you need to have them. You really want
your levels at the very minimum 50
to even 80.
And if you're trying to prevent or
correct something, maybe a little bit
higher. I keep mine between 90 and a
little over 100. Why do I do that?
Because I have a lot of inflammation. I
have a lot of arthritis. And I have to
keep my levels a little higher to keep
that inflammation down because vitamin D
is one of the most potent
anti-inflammatories. Vitamin D is one of
the best things to bring up your mood.
It's good for cognitive function. It's
good for lower back pain, bone density,
and also to decrease your risk of
cancer. The amount of vitamin D that I
would recommend on a daily basis just to
maintain things is 10,000 IU.
Again, you might say, "Wow, that's a
lot." No, it's not. It's like probably
20 minutes in the summer sun. Now,
vitamin D without other things can be a
problem because vitamin D is going to
raise the calcium in the blood. So, you
do need a vitamin D with K2. Vitamin K2
prevents the calcium from building up in
soft tissue. So, if you're taking 10,000
IUs of vitamin D3,
I would recommend the ratio of 100
micrograms of vitamin K2. Number two,
magnesium. If vitamin D is the most
important vitamin, magnesium is the most
important mineral. And magnesium is
super important in allowing vitamin D to
work. It's super important in making
ATP, that's energy.
It's super important in regulating
calcium. If you have too much calcium
and not enough magnesium, you're going
to get a tight muscle. You're going to
get a cramp or a charley horse.
Magnesium prevents that. Magnesium helps
increase something called GABA. It helps
you calm down. That's why it's good for
sleep. The one that I would recommend
mostly is magnesium glycinate. The
absorption on magnesium glycinate is
80%.
If you take magnesium oxide, you're only
going to absorb 3 to 4%. There are other
forms of magnesium that work. But, if
you're taking magnesium citrate or
magnesium oxide, it tends to have a
laxative effect. The RDA for magnesium
is roughly between 380 and 420 mg.
Again, those were established to prevent
seizures or severe issues.
And also, they were developed for women
that weighed 133 lb on average and men
that weighed 165 lb. So, if you're like
me, I weigh 195 lb,
those RDAs just went up to 600 for me,
anyway.
That's just the RDAs. I'm not even
talking about a therapeutic effect. If
you want to create a therapeutic effect,
you're going to have to beef it up even
more. So, personally, what I do is I
take about 250
mg of magnesium four times a day. This
is just for myself. I find my sleep is
really, really good. The next question
is, "Well, I had it tested and it tested
normal." Well, you can't really even
test it unless you do a biopsy or a very
specialized test because most of the
magnesium is not in your blood. It's
inside the cells. And so, it's very
difficult to test. Some people might
say, "Well, we'll just do a red blood
cell magnesium test." 65% of all your
magnesium is working to make that ATP in
the mitochondria, the energy factory of
the body. Well, guess what? Red blood
cells don't have ATP. So, you're testing
the blood where there's not a lot of
magnesium. In the past, I think a lot of
our magnesium came from well water and
spring water. So, if you have city
water, you're probably not getting a lot
of magnesium. Next one, electrolytes,
especially
potassium. You have calcium. You have
magnesium. You have sodium.
But, potassium is the one that most
people are deficient in.
The RDA for potassium is 4,700
mg. That's just the bare amount. And
most people are not even getting half of
that. If the RDA is a 4,700,
think about how much a therapeutic
dosage would really need to be to
correct different things. So, what types
of things could you correct if you had
enough potassium? Definitely blood sugar
issues. And definitely blood pressure
problems as well.
Potassium is one of the best things to
help push fluid out. It balances out
sodium problems. I found for me, if I
don't get enough potassium, I don't have
near as much energy as I should. When I
work out, I don't have that endurance.
But, when I have enough potassium, I can
keep going. I have a lot more energy.
And without potassium, the heart tends
to labor and it will pound harder than
it should. If you are an athlete, if you
exercise a lot, the demand for potassium
goes up. Why? Because you need that
potassium to generate electrical
impulses for your muscles. If you're
getting an electrolyte with high
potassium, make sure you get one that
does not have maltodextrin, which is
just a cheap filler. Also, if you're
going on a low-carb diet and you get
what's called keto fatigue, it's really
an electrolyte deficiency. This is why I
recommend if you're doing prolonged
fasting or if you're doing the ketogenic
diet, definitely electrolytes with
potassium are necessary. Next one is
omega-3 fish oil or cod liver oil. Why
do we need omega-3? And that includes
something called EPA and DHA.
Mainly because the amount of seed oils
that people consume. And that gives us
way too much omega-6 fatty acids, which
is pro-inflammatory. If you take a look
at the ratios of normally what you
should have, it should be like two to
one or one to one as far as six to
three. But, most people have like 10 to
one or 20 to one. Really heavy on the
omega-6. But, EPA specifically will give
you a full body anti-inflammatory
effect. And DHA is a structural fat that
actually helps your brain work and the
retina. Whatever's on the back of the
label, take maybe two times or three
times or even four times, especially if
you have like advanced arthritis or
autoimmune issues. As far as the foods
go, if you do sardines and salmon, but
sardines are next level, loaded with
omega-3. I think in one can, you get 900
mg. So, definitely do more sardines.
There's a common thread to it, right?
I'm recommending more than the RDAs. I'm
also mentioning it's difficult to get it
from the diet. This is why they make up
the foundational supplements because
most people are deficient and they're
having issues, and they can easily get
rid of so many problems if they focused
on these five foundational supplements.
Next one, trace minerals. Minerals
needed in a lot smaller amounts, okay?
We're talking about like iodine or
manganese, iron, or selenium, or zinc.
Unfortunately, the way that we farm, we
only put back in three minerals, NPK,
nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium.
They don't put trace minerals back in
the soil. So, we keep farming, we keep
farming, and then we add this NPK to
grow the grass, and then the cows eat
it, and they're getting this empty,
luscious, green grass. It ends up
creating a deficiency in our body with
trace minerals. We've really lost the
microbes in the soil that mobilize
the minerals. That's really where the
problem is because of the glyphosate and
the chemicals and all these other
things. And then on top of that, we're
not really fortifying those minerals,
either. But a lot of people are
deficient in at least several trace
minerals. And again, the RDAs for some
of these trace minerals are too low.
Personally, I will take four times the
amount it said on the bottle for trace
minerals, and I definitely feel much,
much better when I do that. So, yes, you
can probably eat certain foods to
satisfy you for these trace minerals
like shellfish, tons of trace minerals,
liver, great trace minerals, but most
people don't consume a lot of those
things. Selenium is highest in Brazil
nuts, but a lot of people don't eat
Brazil nuts. And so, this is why it's so
important to understand where our food
comes from. Most of the food that you
buy is grown hydroponically in water.
And also realize, just don't take the
bare minimum. Take a little bit more
because most people are deficient if you
want to feel a change or see a change in
your hair, in your nails, in your skin.
And even with like zinc, testosterone,
so many people have a decrease of
testosterone simply because they don't
have enough zinc. So, these are the
basics. Let's keep it really simple,
foundational. I'm not going to get into
the situational. I have 7,000 videos for
that.
Unnecessary. A generic multivitamin
mineral. There's so many fillers in
there. Most of the one-a-days are owned
by Big Pharma or chemical companies, and
they don't really care about the
quality. So, you're getting a lot of
synthetics, and it's not a quality
supplement that you want to put in your
body. So, I would never recommend a
generic multivitamin, and avoid taking
iron. They give you the type that your
body has a difficult time absorbing. And
also, you'll read or you'll Google like,
"Oh, you need like 1,000 mg of calcium
every day." That's one that you don't
want to do because
there's studies that show that it
increases risk of heart attacks,
especially in women that are
postmenopausal, because you're taking
this calcium carbonate, and without the
magnesium, it can go into the cells and
create a lot of problems. And one
protective trace mineral that can help
you against too much iron is copper,
okay? And that's why I recommend this.
So, as far as unnecessary, the typical
generic multi, iron, and the calcium. If
you are anemic, if you're female and
you're anemic because you're
menstruating too much, then consume more
red meat or liver. Get your iron from
food. And also, get your calcium from
dairy. Raw milk cheese is great. Yogurt
or kefir. All right, I hope we cleared
up some confusion on this topic.
In this next video,
I talk a lot more about this really
important nutrient, potassium. I highly
recommend you get the full understanding
of potassium in this video right here.
Check it out.
