The seven signs your liver is dying and
very sick. There's something very wild
about the liver. You can literally go
for years, decades without any symptoms
at all and actually have a pretty
serious liver problem. So unless you
know some of the subtle signs that are
related to the liver, you could be in
trouble with your liver. And
unfortunately, when you go to the
doctor, they kind of wait until you have
some of these bigger symptoms before
they do anything or even make you aware
of it. But today, I'm going to reveal
the seven subtle signs that your liver
is dysfunctional and not doing well. The
real cause of liver problems is not
eating too much fat. It's not drinking
too much alcohol. And it's definitely
not toxins. Okay? And I used to believe
that. I used to be the king of detoxing.
I did every single detox underneath the
sun. It never did anything for my liver.
It actually made me sicker. I would end
up in bed for two weeks with some
infection. The liver is the hardest
working organ of the entire body. It
works 247. It's the only major internal
organ that can completely 100%
regenerate, even if 70% of that liver is
destroyed or removed. All right, let's
get into these signs right now. Number
one, waking up between 2 and 3:00 a.m. I
was teaching people for years that this
was an adrenal problem. And I thought
this was related to cortisol. And every
time I would recommend to treat cortisol
or the adrenals, rarely would people
really see results, including myself. I
thought I had adrenal problem, I kept
treating it. And it took many, many
years to really even see any change. And
that is because the real problem is not
the adrenal, it's the liver. Remember I
told you that the liver releases the
stored glucose all night long to feed
the brain. So everything is happy and
you can sleep. Well, guess what? If the
liver is dysfunctional, you are going to
have excessive blood sugar swings. Okay?
And since the liver makes a lot of
sugar, it's going to go up. Eventually,
it's going to come down. Okay? When that
blood sugar comes down too steeply, your
brain is going to freak out because your
brain doesn't store fuel. It depends
almost 100% on the liver for its fuel.
And the brain is going to go emergency.
So, it has a button it can press and
that is called adrenaline. Okay?
Adrenaline is a quick mobilizer of
glucose from the liver. And so, it's
going to mobilize the glucose so the
brain can have energy. But in the
meantime, adrenaline is a stress
hormone. It's going to wake you right
out of bed between 2 and 3 a.m. wake up
fully awake, way more awake than you are
during the day and like, "What's going
on?" And you're going to think, "Oh,
yeah. I need to support my adrenals."
No, you don't. You need to fix the
liver. Your adrenals are involved
because they're producing adrenaline,
but they're not dysfunctional, okay?
They're just doing what they're supposed
to be doing. The real problem is in the
liver. And this is why it's so important
to correct the real problem. Sign number
two is right shoulder pain right up
through here all up to my neck. Oh my
gosh, I didn't know what this was. This
is a classic liver problem because what
happens is when the liver becomes
damaged, the bile can't be produced. And
the bile then gets really sluggish
through these little bile ducts
underneath the right rib cage causing
swelling of the liver. There's a nerve
that goes from the diaphragm all the way
up here. It's called the frennic and
that kind of swells up and then it
causes shoulder pain. Now the pancreas
on the left side also can overcompensate
and you also have a frenic nerve on the
left. You could also have it on the left
side too but it's mainly on the right
side. All because of this one food that
I'm going to talk about in just a bit.
All right. Number three, bruise easily.
Why is that? Because your liver makes
clotting factors. And if it can't make
clotting factors, you're going to bleed
excessively and you're going to notice
that you like just bruise yourself and
you're like, "What is going on?" Well,
that's usually a liver problem. The next
one, sign number four, is itching. And I
had this too. I had itching at the
bottom of my feet. I had itching more at
night. What happens with itching is you
get this excess amount of bile. And if
there's some obstruction of bile, it
backs up into the liver, back into the
blood, and then it gets into the skin
causing itchiness. I mean, it was
driving me insane. I thought I had
parasites, right? And I was doing all
these cleanses. I wish I would have
known back then what I know now. It
would have saved me nights of just
terrible sleep because the darn itching
was just driving me crazy, insane. All
right, next sign. Number five is low
tolerance to alcohol. This is another
problem that I have. I cannot tolerate
more than a six-pack. No, I'm just being
sarcastic. I can't tolerate any alcohol.
There was a time I could tolerate
alcohol, but I can't. If I just do a
little bit of alcohol, I feel disgusted.
I feel sick. I feel inflamed. People
with liver problems cannot break that
down efficiently. So, they get more
toxicity through the body. And so, if a
person suddenly can't tolerate alcohol,
suspect the liver is in serious shape.
Number six is the belly starts
protruding as the legs get skinnier and
skinnier. This usually is an advanced
form of liver damage called acites where
there's fluid that builds up in the
abdomen. It's not actually fat. You can
actually tap one side of the abdomen and
it'll ripple on the other side.
Sometimes people have to go in to get it
drained and then it comes right back
within a week. They have to keep
draining it out. But the legs are
skinny, too, because the person is
losing muscle. And you also don't have
enough amino acids to build muscle in
your legs. So, a typical example would
be the guy on the beach with the speedo,
with the huge belly, stick legs. You've
seen that person. And they usually are
sitting there with a margarita, right? A
lot of alcohol. And that's a classic
problem with advanced liver issues. Last
one, number seven, is your brain gets
very irritated because you're not able
to break down protein effectively and
you're getting a backup of ammonia. The
ammonia cannot be cleared. You can kind
of smell it in a person's breath. And
even sometimes when you go into a
nursing home, when I would work in
nursing homes taking X-rays, I would
walk through and I'd be like, I just
smell ammonia. That is a liver
situation. Has a certain distinct smell.
But the problem is that goes to the
brain and it really affects the
cognitive function. The person's
personality can change. They get highly
irritable, angry easily. They have a
short fused brain fog. They can't focus.
But other than that, they're perfectly
fine. And I'm being sarcastic. Okay.
Now, I want to share something with you
that's just mind-blowing. Okay. A person
has the potential to go from a very
severe damaged liver to a normal liver
within weeks by just avoiding
one food. Okay, you ready for this? It's
sugar, but it's a hidden sugar. Okay, it
is called industrial
starch. Now, what is industrial starch?
It's all the hidden sugar in all the
junk foods. Okay. They make it usually
from corn starch. So what really
exploded in the 70s was the conversion
of corn into flour and all these other
things. I mean they can make gasoline
ethanol from corn, right? Well, they can
make glucose from corn, synthetic sugar
from corn, synthetic starch from corn,
and the scaling of fast food to give you
these cheap thickeners and fillers
because that's really what it is. It's a
filler. Okay? Okay. And the average
person consumes literally 200 lbs of
this stuff per year. I mean, just check
this out. Moltodextrin
on the glycemic index is way above
sugar. Okay. Sugar is like 75. Then you
have glucose, which is 100. But
maltodextrin goes between
140 to 180. And it's not even classified
as a sugar. And this is why people
who've never even had one drop of
alcohol on their lips can develop a
fatty liver or even advanced cerosis.
it's coming from something else. All
right, so now let's show you how to fix
it. Number one, stop snacking,
especially on carbohydrate snacks. If
you go in the grocery store, there's
entire aisles of these snacks. We have
sugar, starch, and also just eating too
many frequent foods will increase
insulin. So every time you eat, you
spike insulin. Number two, we need to
stop eating sugar starch and stop
consuming seed oils too. Seed oils also
can cause an insulin problem as well
because it affects the receptors on the
liver and that can cause insulin
resistance which then causes your body
to make more insulin. And so as we do
this, we start lowering insulin. What do
we replace it with? high quality
protein, animal protein, meat, fish,
eggs, cheese. Vegetables have
phytonutrients. They have potassium,
folate, vitamin C. A lot of people do
better with fermented vegetables and
cruciferous vegetables. A really good
salad that I consume is arugula as my
lettuce green. Sometimes I'll do Roma
and sometimes a spring mix, but arugula
takes it to the next level because
that'll increase nitric oxide, good for
the heart, but it's also a little bitter
and it's good for your liver. Radish is
really good for your liver. Dandelion
greens, Swiss chard, kale, good for the
liver. Now, the other thing that's
interesting, number four, is you ever
notice when you don't sleep, you feel
hungry or you want to snack more because
you're increasing cortisol. they've
actually correlated a lack of sleep with
more damage to the liver. So, it's
really important as you start to do this
to take advantage of more sleep. The
reason I put number five, organic, is
because if you have conventional foods,
there's a lot of pesticides,
insecticides, herbicides, fungicides.
So, it would be good if you can go
organic as much as possible. I've
already mentioned cruciferous vegetables
and now I just want to mention this
thing called tadka. What is tadka? It's
bear bile. The bile salts from a bear.
Well, there's a time years ago where
they were killing a lot of bears to get
the bile because it was such an amazing
remedy. But then they found a way to do
it synthetically, which seems to have
very similar benefits. And I've seen
mind-blowing results when someone takes
TUCA with a liver problem. It makes the
liver feel a lot better. It reduces
inflammation. It'll help disrupt
shoulder pain. All right, now you have a
plan. You know what to do. But before
you click away, I want you to do this
right now. I put my exact personal daily
routine into a onepage download. The
exact routine that makes me feel like
I'm 18 years old despite being 60 years
old into one downloadable, printable
piece of paper as a checklist that you
can print out and put on your
refrigerator that will give you a
summary of all these successful
lifestyle actions that I personally do.
And after you do that, I have an amazing
video not just on the liver, but on the
entire digestive system that I highly
recommend you watch right now. I put
that up right here. Check it out.
