I want you to try this tomorrow morning.
Just add one scoop of this in your
coffee. I'm talking about collagen. You
stir it up. Dissolves nicely. There's no
taste. I add a touch of cream. But boy,
what it does to your body is next level.
It's inexpensive, very quick, simple,
and it will support your skin, your
joints, your hair, your sleep, your gut.
I want to explain some things that
collagen can do for your body that you
probably have never heard before. Out of
all of your body's protein, 30% of it is
made up of collagen. That might not mean
much to you until you realize that most
of the dietary protein you're consuming
is only like 1 to 3% collagen. So,
there's a huge gap between the dietary
collagen that's coming in from your diet
and the collagen that's ending up in
your joints, your tendons, your
ligaments, your muscles, and all of the
other connected tissue that holds
everything together. Also, the more
tender the meat, because people love
tender meat, the less the collagen.
People don't like to chew the gristly
tough meat, but in reality, that's where
you get a lot of collagen. Tenderness
means low collagen. And people nowadays
don't consume nose totail like our
ancestors did. But we love our tender
muscle meat. So, we're getting a lot of
protein, but not enough collagen. And as
we age, we lose our collagen. We lose
our skin, our joints, our hair. We don't
sleep that well. And even we lose the
tight junctions that keep our guts from
developing leaky gut. The other thing
you should know about collagen is that
onethird of collagen is a very specific
amino acid called glycine. And yes, it's
true that our body can make some
glycine, but not very much. And so, most
people are very deficient in this thing
called glycine. And those of us that are
not consuming enough collagen, we're not
getting this glycine. Let's start with
the benefits from collagen including
glycine. The first one, sleep. Glycine
directly improves your deep delta wave
sleep. That wave of sleep that gives you
that wonderful refreshed, rejuvenating
feeling when you wake up. Even people
that sleep seven, eight hours and they
get up and they still feel really,
really tired, chances are they're not
getting the deep sleep because they're
not getting enough glycine. Glycine also
helps increase something called GABA and
it helps calm you down and it really
helps you rejuvenate through the night.
Number two, gut health. Glycine is
essential to keep this gut healthy,
especially in repairing the gut lining.
If you have any type of inflammation,
bloating, leaky gut, you want to be
taking glycine from collagen. If there's
food allergies, if you have an
autoimmune disease, which usually starts
in the gut, this can greatly help you.
Glycine directly reduces gut
inflammation. This next one is big.
Detoxification
requires glycine. Why? Because glycine
is the precursor, the building block for
glutathione, which is the master
detoxification compound for your liver.
And without glycine, you can't make
glutathione. And without glutathione,
you can't detoxify your liver. So toxins
build up, inflammation builds up, you
can't detoxify, excess hormones, all of
the things we're exposed to, plastics,
chemicals, environmental pollution
that's almost impossible to avoid is
dealt with by glutathione in your liver
if you have enough of this glycine. So
glycine is very anti-inflammatory. And
if a person is on medications,
they need to support this glutathione in
the liver more than someone who's not on
medications because medications are
extra stress on the liver, thereby
increasing the demand for more glycine.
Let's next talk about hair premature
graying. There's reports that glycine
can help slow that down. There's an
enzyme called catalyze in your body that
helps you break down something called
hydrogen peroxide. Hydrogen peroxide is
made by your immune system and by other
cells to help defend itself. And
sometimes there's too much hydrogen
peroxide which can actually make your
hair lose its pigment and cause grain.
Well, guess what? You need glycine for
catalase. Catalase is dependent on
glycine or it just can't work. Next one.
Blood sugar. Yes, blood sugar. Glycine
makes your blood sugar more stable. It
also helps make insulin more sensitive.
And that means you can handle blood
sugars much better with less insulin,
which then creates a cascade of good
effects. Easier weight loss, less belly
fat, less fatty liver. And there's one
other thing that's really interesting.
There's an opposing hormone to insulin
that does the opposite of insulin. It's
called glucagon. And glycine supports
glucagon. So those people have too much
insulin and they have too much weight
gain. It's actually a good thing to
support this opposite hormone glucagon
because it does the reverse actions.
Next one is very interesting too.
Glycine competes for something called
uric acid. So it's really good for gout.
Glycine also helps to reduce oxalates
that bind with calcium, decreasing your
risk of kidney stones. And as a side
note, magnesium also will help reduce
oxalate stones as well. Glycine is also
essential to make something called heem,
the protein in blood. And glycine also
supports your gums. Now, here's the part
that almost no one talks about, and this
will change your viewpoint on collagen.
Most people assume that when you eat
collagen, it goes in your body, it gets
digested, it goes to your connective
tissue, and that's it. But that's not
how it works. 90% of the collagen goes
into the scaffolding or the raw material
that builds all this connective tissue,
but 10% uses a different pathway. It
survives digestion as these smaller
little chains of amino acids called
peptides. And these peptides are very
unique. They're not just floating around
randomly. They're acting as a signaling
molecule. 10% of all the collagen that
you consume ends up as these little
peptides that actually communicate to
something called fibrolasts. These are
the cells that help repair your tissues
and rebuild collagen. And so think about
it. When you eat steak, fish, eggs,
chicken, you're not getting a lot of
collagen. Even if you consume whey
protein powder, you're not getting a lot
of collagen. So, unless you're consuming
food with collagen, you're not going to
get this little thing right here, which
is super important for repair. And I'm
talking about all the things right
through here. So, a lot of people ask
me, "What supplements do I recommend?"
Now, of course, I'm not biased of my own
high-quality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg
supplements, you'll find more
information. Before I get into a couple
more key things about collagen, I want
to just mention what destroys collagen.
junk food, primarily sugar, seed oils,
stress, age. When you're like 17 years
old, you are at the peak of your
collagen production, your elasticity,
your skin, your gut is at its best it's
ever going to be. Okay? Then as you get
older, it starts going down and down and
down and down. I remember when I was 17
years old, I could literally jump off my
roof and not shatter. I'm 60 right now.
If I jumped off my roof right now, I
would probably break a bone. So, when
we're young, we're elastic. We can
bounce. We have wonderful amounts of
collagen, but as we get older, it kind
of goes downhill. So, the bad news, as
we age, we lose our collagen. But the
good news is we can get it back if we
understand the mechanism. And I think
the big confusion is people think if I
eat meat, steak, I'll get my collagen.
But it's not true. So, as far as glycine
goes, you want to have between four and
10 grams per day. And you can easily get
that from a scoop of collagen. Just one
scoop. And the easiest way to do this is
just put the scoop in your coffee,
dissolve it, it's done. Another way to
get collagen is through bone broth.
or take a whole chicken, the entire
thing, put it in the crock pot and cook
it all day. You will have an end product
that's loaded with collagen. When you
consume fish or chicken, make sure the
skin is on it. Pork grinds without MSG
is not a bad way to get some collagen,
too. And if you are taking a collagen
powder, make sure it comes with vitamin
C because that allows the collagen to
work on our bodies much better. So, now
that you know about collagen, okay,
that's just half the problem. If we're
talking about joints, if you want to
take things beyond just the raw material
to build up new joints, you must watch
this video right here. Super important,
especially if you have any pain,
inflammation, stiffness, or arthritis
with your joints. Check it out. I put it
up right here.
