Do not take baking soda unless you watch
this video. Baking soda has the
potential to help or even poison you.
Baking soda is sodium bicarbonate. It's
an alkaline compound. And guess what?
Your body makes it. Your pancreas makes
it. As the strong acid comes from your
stomach into the small intestine. If
that pancreas does not release enough
sodium bicarbonate, you don't get any of
the benefits from the enzymes coming
from the pancreas to help you digest
fats and other things. This is why when
someone's pancreas is not working, boy,
they can get severe bloating, they get
diarrhea, they get constipation. We need
a really strong acid stomach and then we
need an alkaline small intestine. Let's
talk first about the benefits of baking
soda. Baking soda being an alkaline
substance can be beneficial for
temporarily relieving an acid stomach. I
have to clarify something because when
we talk about an acidic stomach, a lot
of things come up. You might have like
gird acid reflux. All those things are a
little bit different because you never
want to take baking soda when you have
indigestion. Indigestion is like this
backup of food that just you feel like
your stomach is like cramping. That is a
classic low acid or a lack of acid
situation. So of course adding more
baking soda is just going to go from bad
to worse. Anytime you have indigestion,
you need to take either apple cider
vinegar or something called betane
hydrochloride. it'll fix it really fast.
But when we get into more of an acidic
stomach, whether it is acid reflux or
gird, if you wanted some temporary
relief as you fix the problem, a little
bit of baking soda would help you, but
just a little bit because usually those
problems are also a lack of acid. But
the baking soda will at least put the
fire out and make you feel more
comfortable. But then you would also
want to do apple cider vinegar and or
betane hydrochloride. Now, what about
gastritis? You would want to take baking
soda for sure, but also take something
called zinc carnosine so you can
actually heal that problem. But you just
need to understand that the normal pH of
the stomach is between 1 and three. That
is like battery acid. And just don't get
in a habit of taking baking soda for a
long period of time because you're going
to neutralize your stomach acids and now
you're going to end up with an inability
to digest protein, the inability to
absorb B12, an inability to absorb
minerals, and also you're not going to
be able to kill off any type of microbes
or pathogens that might be in your food.
Now, if you take baking soda for a long
time chronically, is there really a
chance of your blood becoming too
alkaline? And the answer is probably not
because the effect that baking soda has
on our bodies is very temporary. If your
body is too alkaline, uh you're going to
have symptoms issues with your muscles
because of how that affects the
electrolytes. Another really good
benefit of baking soda is to help to
neutralize the acid in your mouth from
the bacteria that is forming these
little bofilm tartar plaquing
situations. So, baking soda could be one
of the ingredients in your toothpaste
and I actually show you how to make
that. I will put that link down below.
But ultimately, you got to get the sugar
out of the diet because sugar is what's
making that acid. Another benefit of
baking soda is to relieve itching from a
kidney problem. When your kidney becomes
damaged, you start developing too much
acid and that can affect your skin,
especially itching among other symptoms.
One of the great antidotes to that is to
take something to neutralize the acid
and that takes the stress off the
kidney. In fact, some people with kidney
problems even take some baking soda to
prolong going on dialysis because when
the kidneys are damaged, it can't
regulate the pH anymore like it used to
because a diseased kidney will make more
acids. Now, another way I would use
baking soda is let's say for example,
you're doing prolonged fasting or or
even intermittent fasting and you're a
carnivore. You're doing a lot of meat
and then you start feeling this uh
acidity coming up through your stomach.
some baking soda here and there can help
uh chill that out, especially if you're
trying to sleep at night and it's kind
of coming up through your esophagus.
Another unique beneficial way to take
baking soda is if you're an athlete and
you're going to compete in some sport
and you wanted the unfair advantage, you
wanted to be able to do more reps. You
wanted to go a little longer. You want a
little better performance and less
lactic acid buildup, which can actually
stop you from using your muscles,
especially with highintensity type
activities. Because if you take all of
it at once and feel nauseous, we want to
avoid that. If you really want to know
how much you should take, it's 2 g per
kilogram of weight. Another benefit of
baking soda is to help prevent kidney
stones. So, if you're susceptible to
kidney stones, you can take some baking
soda because uric acid dissolves in
baking soda. And this is why baking soda
is also good in a gout situation, at
least as a temporary action. Of course,
ultimately you'd want to avoid uh any
types of fructose, high fructose corn
syrup, especially another way you can
take baking soda is if you have a UTI.
It'll actually change the environment uh
so the microbes or the pathogens can't
exist anymore. And then the last benefit
of baking soda would be some topical
applications for some type of insect
bite. If the insect's venom is alkaline,
that could make you worse. There are two
insects that have an acid venom. So
applying baking soda would help that.
Ants, especially fire ants and bee
stings, would benefit from putting some
topical baking soda on the actual sting
bite. So just get some wet and apply it
to your skin. If you get stung by a
wasp, do not put baking soda on that
because those venoms are more alkaline.
If you add more alkaline, you're going
to make it worse. What you should put on
that is vinegar. A spider bite. Don't
put baking soda on that. The best thing
to put on that is either activated
charcoal or bentonite clay, which has
the power of like pulling things out of
the skin. And then a snake bite. The
best antidote for that is something
called milk thistle. And as a side note,
baking soda is also really good for
insects, especially cockroaches, because
if you add sugar with baking soda and
you leave it out for the cockroaches,
they'll eat it. then from the chemical
reaction you'll get carbon dioxide and
their digestive systems will rupture and
they will die. Okay? So that would be a
natural way to get rid of these insects
so you don't have these insecticides
around your house. The other thing you
need to know about baking soda is you
never want to take it with vinegar or
lemon juice because it's just going to
create so much uh carbon dioxide your
stomach is going to bloat up with carbon
dioxide. Not a good idea. And I think
you already know this too. You can open
a container of baking soda and keep it
in the fridge and it gets rid of the
odors. So, now that you know a little
bit more about this uh home remedy
baking soda, you should check out my
apple cider vinegar video right
