Fasting hands down is the most powerful
thing you can do for your health. If you
ate no food for five days, would you
starve to death? Or would you heal your
body? Would you improve your organs?
We're going to talk about exactly what
happens day 1, 2, 3, four, and five.
Doesn't health come from nourishing the
body? The real problem is that you're so
used to eating, it's hard to give that
up. What we're doing when we're fasting
is we're basically mimicking how our
bodies were evolved genetically. If you
just think about like the stone age
time, did we eat three meals a day plus
two snacks? Could we actually order
Pizza Hut 24/7? No. We did not eat very
frequently back in the day. Now, our
genes are so confused on what's going
on, especially if those calories are
junk foods. When you start this program
and you stop eating, your brain's going
to get smarter. every single cell in
your body is going to be very very
resilient. So let's go through on day
one. You are going to lose something
called glycogen. Glycogen is a series of
glucose molecules connected together on
a chain. With each glucose, you have
three waters. So if you actually look at
what glycogen is, it's like this fluid
fil sack of sugar that is going to be
tapped into and gone within the first
day. So you're going to get rid of that.
When you get rid of that, you get rid of
a lot of water weight. Some people lose
between one and even three pounds the
first day. And some people need to lose
that because they're just retaining way
too much fluid as well. You're also
going to be lowering this hormone called
insulin, which is the control switch to
whether you burn fat or you burn sugar.
If insulin is low, you're going to be
able to tap into your own fat. What am I
talking about? I'm talking about when
you're fasting, you're no longer eating
food, but you're eating something else.
You're fat. This is why your appetite
completely goes away. You're so
satisfied. You have no desire to eat
because you are eating. You're eating
24/7. You're eating one of the most
biologically amazing foods that was ever
created, and that is fat. Also, when you
digest your fat, you don't need to
actually use or tax your digestive
system. you can just go right from your
fat to your liver and use it as fuel
because the body is sensing, okay, no
food coming in, it's going to start
turning off the switches to any type of
growth and it's going to start turning
on the repair mechanisms in the body.
Day one, you're going into this, you
stopped eating, I highly recommend you
take sea salt, potassium, magnesium,
calcium. These are electrolytes. trace
minerals are probably going to be
important as well and also some B
vitamins simply because a lot of these
nutrients are not necessarily stored in
the body for a long period of time. So
if you're going into this and you
haven't stored up a reserve and you
become deficient, you can feel kind of
some side effects like fatigue or muscle
cramps or lightadedness. But if you
actually take these nutrients like I
tell you, you won't have any problem at
all. What can I drink on a fast? Well,
you can do tea. I recommend naturally
decaffeinated tea. I drink a lot of tea.
Um, but there's not a lot of calories in
tea. So, you can do tea, do a little
coffee in the morning if you want. Just
don't put any uh cream and definitely
sugar in there or any type of artificial
anything. Just drink it black. You can
even do water with little lemon. There's
not a problem with that. There's not a
lot of calories in lemon. I wouldn't add
apple cider vinegar because it's more
acidic and you might already have a lot
of acid being concentrated and
generated. So, that might not be a good
idea. A couple things that I like to do
to add to doing a prolong fast is I try
to get good amount of sun and then also
long walks in nature, heat therapy,
whether it's a sauna, a jacuzzi or a hot
bath or I might alternate to a cold bath
or a cold shower as well. Highintensity
interval training, not a lot. In this
fiveday fast, I might do one and make it
really intense because now we're adding
a couple different amazing stresses to
enhance this effect. And I do take some
other specific supplements, not a
problem because there's not a lot of
calories in there unless you're doing
some type of collagen, which I don't
recommend you do that during this fast.
But the bone broth is a better thing to
do if you run into any challenge. Now,
we're in day two. Day two is where you
we start to really get into ketosis.
Now, what the heck is ketosis? Ketosis
is fat burning that you can use as fuel.
And ketosis has many, many benefits.
Number one being brain power. Oh my
gosh, your focus, concentration, the
ability to learn. Ketones are actually
considered like an natural
anti-depressant. At day two, we're
getting more ketosis. You're gonna be
less hungry. And we're starting this
amazing thing here, which I'm going to
explain right now, called autophagy.
What the heck is autophagy? Your body
takes all the junk that it doesn't need,
and it recycles it for fuel and new body
tissue that it needs. So, the body is
very efficient. If you're going to stop
eating, it's going to take these
resources that you'll never need.
They're just there and they're just
clogging everything up. and it's going
to clean those out. These little tiny
recycling factories right here. It's
called the lo and that factory allows
you to take all the different damaged
protein and it breaks it down and then
it spits out on the other side new raw
material to make new cells and that's
called autophagy. This is why when you
start doing fasting, it's kind of an
anti-aging
tool that you can use to actually get
younger. Day three, you're in deeper
ketosis. Now, now your brain is really,
really happy. Your body's fuel right now
is primarily ketones. Now, some people
might tell you, "Oh, ketones are a
backup fuel uh if you run out of
glucose." That is so not true. Ketones
are the primary fuel. And this is why if
someone has been damaged by eating too
much refined sugar, ketones can come in
there and actually help heal them. But
in day three, we're getting this deeper
ketosis. We're getting more brain power.
We're getting better mood. You're going
to feel kind of euphoric, kind of like
really kind of happy and good. And
that's because you're stimulating this
thing called BDNF,
brain derived neurotrphic factor. What
the heck is this? It helps support
making new brain cells. It helps
increase the capacity for learning and
more cognitive power. When I'm on a day
three fast and I'm doing these videos,
like I have very little editing. I mean,
it's just like I'm just right there all
the time. Bam, bam, bam, bam. Until I
eat and then it kind of clogs everything
up in my thought pattern. BDNF can
increase by 400%
at day three. Not in every single case.
Sometimes it's only increases by 40%.
Then we have something called deep
autophagy. I just want to explain this
one more time because autophagy is the
recycling of old damaged parts, but it's
actually more than that. Mitochondria,
the little energy factors of your cell.
Most chronic disease comes from damage
with your mitochondria. One of the types
of autophagy is recycling damaged
mitochondria. Cancer comes from damaged
mitochondria. So, right there, that's a
plus point. Secondly, if you have any
type of chronic illness, let's say it
runs in your family or maybe you have
something brewing in the oven because it
takes 15 to 20 years for some of these
chronic diseases to manifest. Guess
what? Autophagy is going to start
cleaning that up. Autophagy will also
help clean up old intracellular inside
the cell pathogens. Epstein bar virus,
certain bacterial type stuff, fungus,
mold, and that's in your cells.
Autophagy is going to clean all that up.
Think about what that will do for your
immune system. And that's the next thing
I want to talk about. At day three, 72
hours, you're going to literally get a
reset of your immune system. These old
damaged white blood cells, get recycled
to the point where you develop a new
immune system. The thymus gland, which
is on top of the heart, which is the
training camp for your tea cells, starts
to grow when you start doing fasting. As
you get older, it atrophies and gets
smaller. The stem cells for your immune
system also start getting stronger. Let
me explain stem cells. They're basically
cells that are kind of a blank neutral
slate. They haven't really developed in
anything. They can turn into anything.
They're kind of like a neutral cell. So,
you have them sitting there waiting and
they do keep reproducing into other stem
cells, but they're waiting there until
the point where someday you might need
some new cells. Well, guess what? the
capacity for your stem cells start to
increase, but not quite yet. It's going
to really happen when you start
refeeding. You're increasing this
capacity for this amazing release of a
new immune system. kind of like exercise
or let's say you do some super intense
workout and you worked really hard and
you did it to such an extreme, such an
intensity to the point it was at
failure. Well, the benefit from that
versus a tiny workout is going to be
much better, but you're not going to
notice it for a couple days or even a
couple weeks. The same thing with this.
The reason why we're fasting for 5 days
is we're going to create a bigger bang
at the end of 5 days when you refeed.
Okay, that's with the immune system and
the gut lining in your gut. You have
like 27 ft of intestines and it's just
really just like one cell layer. It's
really thin layer of your entire GI
system. And every 3 to 5 days, it gets
replaced. Well, guess what? You haven't
put any food in this long tube for three
days. Think about what's happening. You
are finally, for the first time probably
in your life, cleaning out this system
and finally a chance to really heal and
regenerate without any food that's
constantly causing your body to work.
Not to mention the type of food that we
eat is just like totally inflammatory.
But we're not doing that with this fast.
So, we really get a chance to kind of
rehab our gut lining. And then at day
three, you're really going to get this
massive spike of growth hormone. Growth
hormone protects you against muscle
loss. This is why you're not going to
shrivel up after 5 days. Growth hormone
in a child helps you grow, but in an
adult, it helps to keep younger. Day
four, you have maximum fat burning and
your hunger is gone. You're not
interested in food. You could care less.
I mean, the question is, how could your
appetite possibly be gone if you haven't
eaten anything? Unless your body's being
fed already, and that's what happens.
You've just been eating your fat 247,
but it's so efficient and it's keeping
everything going, you just don't have
any hunger. And you didn't have any
hunger the third day either. And maybe
you had a little hunger the second day.
But the point is that the longer you do
this, the more the hunger just
completely goes away. There's another
little thing I want to mention. If
you're going through a lot of stress and
something happens that can activate
cortisol and that can release a little
sugar and that can also cause you to be
hungry. In that case, the quick solution
is just to drink some bone broth and man
that'll be enough to give you the amino
acids to feel great. It can be a
gamecher for those people that are
struggling periodically through this
longer fast and I do recommend that even
for a longer fast too. What's really
happening is our bodies are repairing
and also all sorts of genes are being
triggered. Your body is trying to
survive as long as possible. So all the
longevity genes get kicked in there. All
the genes for protection are heightened.
Like this one right here, you start to
build up your antioxidant networks. You
can get antioxidants from food, but your
body makes some as well. The other thing
that happens with your microbes is your
microbes start becoming more diverse
because their genetics have evolved just
like ours in soil, right? I mean, you go
through winter, you go through droughts,
those microbes have to survive. A very
similar situation with our bodies. Our
bodies will start to cope and become way
more efficient with fuel and recycling
resources if we don't feed it. The other
thing too, our hormone system becomes
more sensitive. So now it works better.
I will say the genes for sex hormones,
even your menstrual cycle, that might go
away during a long fast just because
your body's like, "Okay, we better not
reproduce. We better turned off that
system. It'll kick back on once you
start eating, but also the thyroid, too.
You might find the thyroid hormones kind
of go a little lower." That's not a
dysfunction. That's just adapting to not
eating. Of course, on day four, your
autophagy is like on fire. Your cells
are going after precancerous cells,
microbes, damaged tissue, plaquing in
your brain. Starts cleaning it up. Your
inflammation just drops way, way, way
down. All sorts of things start
improving because you're in this deep
autophagy. Now, we got to day five. All
the benefits just are extended right
here. But now, at some point during the
day, we're going to do a refeeding. Very
important. You don't want to just eat a
big meal because your entire digestive
system has been asleep for a while and
you want to slowly kind of kick it in
there. You would want to have maybe
1/4th of the amount of calories you
would normally eat. An egg with a little
sauerkraut. Wait for a couple hours.
Maybe have a little soup, a little
avocado. Wait for a couple hours. Some
berries, a few nuts, that type of thing.
And don't introduce a full meal for a
couple days later. So, you want to
slowly get into this because if you
overload your digestive system, you're
going to feel very nauseous and kind of
sick to your stomach. And what's really
important is not to consume sugar or
carbohydrate at this point. But bone
broth is really good to consume because
you have something that's really easy to
process. You know, these amino acids and
there's vitamins and minerals. What's
going to happen when you refeed at this
point? You're going to get a massive
rebuild.
And this is why it's so important to put
in quality food, grass-fed,
grass-finish, beef for lamb,
pasture-raised organic eggs, things like
that. High quality organic food if you
can afford that. And the on switch now
is for grow. After this 5 days, boy,
your skin, your muscles, your joints,
your brain is all going to be that much
better. And like I said in the beginning
of this presentation,
there are genes that are going to be
turned on that would never be turned on
if you didn't do this. And these genes
are protective genes against DNA damage,
protection now of your mitochondria. You
get protection of your neurons. But if
you never fast, you never get a chance
to turn on these genes. I do not know of
any better way to create more health
than this prolonged fast. But to be able
to work up to this prolonged fast, you
really need to start with regular
intermittent fasting. And for that
information, you need to know all the
details in this video right here. Check
it out.
