the hidden ingredient in junk food that
acts like a detergent. I want you to
think about what dish soap actually
does. You squirt some on a greasy pan
and it dissolves the grease by stripping
off the protective layer off the surface
of the pan. Now, imagine the same
process happening inside your gut. And
I'm talking about this very delicate,
thin layer of mucus on the inside of
your gut that is there to protect you.
There's a chemical that is so commonly
added to our foods that we just consider
it normal. And that chemical does the
exact same thing to the protective
lining of your intestines. That dish
soap does to the grease on a pan. And
once the lining is gone, things that
were never supposed to reach your
bloodstream start reaching your
bloodstream. They start getting through
a leaky gut. I'm talking about bacteria,
toxins, partially digested proteins from
your food. And most people have never
actually heard about it unless they read
ingredients. And the bad news is,
chances are you've been eating it
unknowingly on a daily basis. Let me
show you where this ingredient is
actually hiding. It's in ice cream. It's
in chocolate bars. It's in salad
dressing. It's in plant-based milk. It's
in bread, protein bars, peanut butter,
coffee creamer, mayonnaise, and baby
formula. It's estimated that this
ingredient is roughly in 60% of all
packaged foods on the grocery store
shelves. And the wild part is when I
tell you what this is, you've probably
heard about it before, but had no idea
what it really is. It goes by names like
polyorbate
80, mono and dlycerides,
caroxymethyl
cellulose, and something called
carrageenan. And I know this sounds like
chemistry. Well, it is chemistry. It's
chemicals. And these are all
collectively called emulsifiers.
Emulsifiers force the oil and water to
mix so that the processed food looks
smoother so that it feels creamy when
it's in your mouth and it will last
longer on the shelf. That's the only
thing they do for the food. And so if
they didn't put those in there, they
wouldn't mix that well. So this is how
it works. Your gut has a built-in
defense mechanism. This mechanism is a
thick layer of mucus that coats the
inside of your intestines. On one side
you have trillions of bacteria. On the
other side you have your bloodstream. In
fact, all of the food that you eat
eventually gets through and goes into
the bloodstream. But you also have your
immune system right there, too. That
mucous layer separates those two things
like a barrier. And emulsifiers by their
very nature dissolve that protective
barrier. I mean, that's literally their
chemical function. They're there to do
just that, to food, but they ended up
doing it to your own body, your own
intestines. And so many people are
unknowingly eating this daily over and
over and over for years. And when that
barrier gets too thin, the bacteria that
are there to protect you end up getting
through into the bloodstream. And your
immune system is going to look at it
like a pathogen and tag it as a bad guy.
And now we get what's called an immune
reaction aka gut inflammation. And at
first it starts as a lowgrade constant
simmering inflammation. But over time if
you keep inflaming it, it gets worse and
worse and worse until it starts to wear
down the inside of your colon. And then
from there you get scar tissue and then
you have problems absorbing nutrients.
There are many downstream consequences
of this that go way beyond just the
feeling of bloating because whatever is
going on in your gut, you're going to
feel up here as well. So, you might feel
brain fog. You might feel very heavy and
sluggish and can't really think clearly
after you eat. The things that you used
to eat now bother you. And so, it's
really not always about the food. It's
about certain ingredients in food, or if
you want to call it that, that can
actually start this process. So, a lot
of people ask me, "What supplements do I
recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not
biased of my own high-quality supplement
line, but if you go to Amazon and type
Dr. Berg supplements, you'll find more
information. So, in animal studies, one
of the biggest common emulsifiers is
something called polyorbate 80. In some
of the animal studies, they develop
metabolic syndrome. They gain weight.
They have blood sugar problems and also
altered gut bacteria. And I'm going to
be honest, a lot of these are animal
studies, not human studies. We actually
don't have a 20-year human trial. But
here's what we do have. We do have a
controlled human trial published in 2024
that found just from 2 weeks of eating
food with an emulsifier, the
participants had altered gut microbiomes
and the bacteria move closer to the
intestinal lining. That's just two
weeks. I mean, even in the last 20
years, IBS, irritable bowel syndrome has
doubled. Autoimmune diseases are
skyrocketing right now, and a lot of
those start in the gut, especially in
countries where they adopted
ultrarocessed foods. So, is that the
proof that emulsifiers cause all of
this? No. But it isn't a coincidence
that gut diseases are exploding after
the exact same emulsifier consumption is
also exploding. The next question is why
do we have these chemicals in our food?
In the United States, food additives can
be classified as generally recognized as
safe. It's called gross. And the part of
this that should bother you is that
gross is a loophole. Companies can
self-certify their own ingredients as
safe. They've never been through
third-party safety trials at all. And so
when you hear this, oh yeah, they're
generally recognized as safe and think,
oh yeah, good. I can eat them, don't buy
into that. They do not have to submit to
the FDA any long-term human trials. They
don't even have to test chronic gut
exposure. In many cases, the FDA doesn't
even review their data. Most of these
emulsifiers were approved decades ago
based on short-term toxicity studies.
The question they wanted to know is,
does this create poisoning immediately?
If not, it's safe. They never asked a
question if someone eats this, you know,
three times a day for a decade, what
happens? But this is just how our system
is right now. Hopefully RFK Jr. is going
to get rid of this gross loophole. What
really bothers me is children consume
ultrarocessed foods the most out of any
age group. In fact, we start our infants
out with infant formula, which is
equivalent to junk food. When your child
consumes cereal with milk and a granola
bar and crackers and chicken nuggets and
an ice cream dessert, just realize
they're getting this emulsifier, but
they're also getting a lot of other
things that are really bad as well. I
have a simple solution for you. Instead
of reading all the ingredients on the
ultrarocessed
foods and spending all that time trying
to find out if there's emulsifiers,
just don't eat ultrarocessed foods. In
fact, don't even buy it. Don't even keep
it in your pantry or your refrigerator
because when you're tired, hungry, or
stressed, you're going to be going for
it. I'm going to be totally honest with
you. I do have an addiction to potato
chips. And I have my wife's agreement
that we don't buy them. We don't keep
them in the house, or else I will
consume them late at night when she's
not around. So instead of trying to
battle this with willpower and
discipline, just change your environment
and make sure it's not in the house.
Because if it's not in the house, you'd
have to drive to the store and you
probably are not going to do that. Now
that you know what destroys the gut
lining, let's now talk about what will
correct and repair the gut lining in
this video right here. Check it out.
