I've been watching the dietary food
guidelines very closely for decades. And
I never thought I would see what I just
saw yesterday. And for the first time in
history, they didn't just tweak the
pyramid. They flipped it upside down.
This is a massive win by RFK Jr. And
yes, there are a few problems which are
going to cover, but mostly I am super
excited because what this is going to do
for children in schools, for hospitals,
nursing homes, for the military, all
these institutional foods, they're going
to have to completely rewire the supply
chains. You have to understand how
radical this shift is. For over 40
years, the foundation of our guidelines
were the grains being the base. Okay? I
mean, I'm talking between 6 to 11
servings of grains every single day. The
entire past pyramids have been based on
carbohydrates. But yesterday in this
release, they walked away from that
entire model. They didn't do what they
normally did, which is adjust a few
numbers. They actually talked about the
food itself, which is enormous. But I
think this didn't happen from just
opinions. The data has been accumulating
for years and years and there hadn't
been a point where you just can't ignore
it anymore. They now directly targeted
in the crosshairs ultrarocessed foods as
being the primary driver of 90% of
chronic disease. I'm talking about
obesity, type 2 diabetes, fatty liver.
For decades, the alter processed food
companies were protected by silence. But
now that's all gone. So, it's no longer
this cosmetic wording of making things
sound really healthy. There's some
pretty hardcore statements in this
document. I'm going to put a link down
below. Let's just compare and contrast
the old model with the new model. In the
old model, okay, was recommended 6 to 11
servings of carbohydrates. That is a
massive amount of carbohydrates that
turn into sugar in your body. They also
recommended low fat. They also wanted
you to do low cholesterol and low
saturated fats. And of course, they
focused on calories.
Calories in equals calories out. All
right. Now,
what's in the crosshairs is
ultrarocessed
foods, emphasizing real foods,
increasing protein, not from plant-based
protein, from high quality protein like
red meat. And so, the old recommendation
for protein was8 g per kilogram. So with
a 180 lb person, they would be
recommended about 65 grams of protein
per day. Now the new recommendations for
protein is 1.2 to 1.6 g per kilogram of
body weight and an average of 180 lb
person. We're talking 98 to 131 g of
protein per day versus the 65 gram over
here. This is a massive shift because I
already know being in this field a lot
of people are deficient in high quality
protein. And just that recommendation
alone is going to be huge to help your
biochemistry, to help hormones, to help
blood sugars. Now, what's really going
to be interesting is how they're going
to implement this because they're
targeting alter processed foods as the
enemy of health. Okay? And so now, if
you think about it, the entire
foundation of our food supply is built
on ultrarocessed foods. Supply chains
are geared towards delivering
ultrarocessed foods. Over 50% of our
calories are ultrarocessed foods. So, I
don't know how they're going to change
that, but that's another problem with
implementing these new recommendations.
We've been for decades operating off of
the wrong information. And the other
delicate area I want to bring up is
definitions. They are working right now
on the definition of ultrarocessed
foods. And if I had my way, what I would
start out doing is first talk about the
definition of actual food. Not
ultrarocessed foods, but let's start
with the definition of food. Because in
another video I talked about this. What
they did is they altered the definition
of food and made it a legal definition,
which basically means something that you
eat that has nothing to do with the
biological definition of food. So,
they're completely different. The legal
definition of food is something that's
edible and has a shelf stable life. And
that's pretty much it. It really has
nothing to do with the biological
definition, which has to support life.
It has to help with growth in the repair
of body tissue, but not the legal
definition. So without getting that
foundation, you can't then compare and
contrast and then talk about what
ultrarocessed food is. If I had any
input in it, I would start with going
back to the biological definition of
food. Okay? And then anything that
doesn't fit that, you can't call food.
And that would be a huge game changer
because that would put a lot of
awareness on things that you put in your
mouth and get people to simply realize
just eat food because this other thing
over here is not food because it cannot
sustain health life. It can't repair the
body. It's going to basically create
disease. Whoever controls the definition
controls the outcome. They did this also
with the definition of drug and disease
which I've talked about in other
presentations. But the definition of
food is very very important. That which
is eaten to sustain life, promote the
growth and repair of tissues. The
derivation means nourishment. Now, with
all the good things that just happened,
there's one main big missing piece of
the puzzle, and that is the actual root
cause of most chronic disease. I'm
talking about insulin resistance. Now,
some people are going to say, well, does
it really matter? Because a lot of the
foods that they're recommending and the
changes will indirectly help prevent
insulin resistance. That's true. But
what about the people that already have
insulin resistance? Will this new plan
address that? I don't think so. Because
when we're getting into correcting
insulin resistance, it's super important
to talk about how often you eat. Because
if you apply this to your daily life as
far as changing the foods, yet you're
still having three meals, two snacks,
you're grazing between meals, even if
it's so-called healthy foods, you're
still going to raise insulin. And every
time you spike insulin with eating
either healthy or unhealthy foods, you
are contributing to this insulin
resistance, and it's going to be almost
impossible to reverse it, even if you're
eating real foods. Now, you'll probably
prevent it, but I don't know if you're
going to actually reverse it because the
two things you have to focus on
reversing it are doing low carb and
number two, not eating so frequently.
And so, in the new dietary guidelines,
insulin resistance wasn't mentioned.
Also, they didn't get into intermittent
fasting. But I'm telling you that so at
least you'll know what you need to do to
correct insulin resistance. And I really
think the reason why they could not
mention insulin resistance is because
for yours they promoted a diet that
actually causes insulin resistance. And
for them to have to bring this up right
now, it's incredibly embarrassing. They
never like to be wrong. I mean, just
take a look at cholesterol, right? In
2015, they very quietly removed the
limits for cholesterol from our foods.
Did they apologize for the last 40 years
of telling us we had to get rid of
cholesterol and go on statins? No, they
didn't even mention that. But if you're
talking six to 11 servings of
carbohydrates, you're talking about a
massive spike in insulin. And also, if
they brought up insulin resistance, they
would also have to admit this whole
calories in, calories out is completely
nonvalid because they don't focus on the
type of calories, which are calories
that increase insulin. which then causes
insulin resistance. Now, the last little
thing I want to talk about with the new
recommendations is saturated fat.
Unfortunately, they still put the cap at
10% saturated fat. And that's one
disagreement because if you restrict
saturated fat, what's left? We have
unsaturated fatty acids like the seed
oils. However, they did talk about
ultrarocessed foods which also contain a
lot of seed oils. They also talked about
refined oils. Okay, so that was good.
But of course, they didn't really talk
about how oil is oxidized, not just with
heat, but by storage. And then one more
point on this, they didn't mention the
word industrial starches, but they did
mention refined carbohydrates. And I
don't even think people even know this
word industrial starch. It is the
refined carbohydrates. And I'm talking
about flour products that you see, the
wheat flour. But not just that, you have
other words. Modified corn starch,
modified food starch, moltodextrin,
which actually is hidden sugar, but it's
not labeled as sugar. It's labeled as a
carbohydrate and sugar-free. Even though
it will raise your blood sugar way more
than actual sugar. But just realize this
is targeted. And within this category,
you have a lot of the hidden sugars as
starches. And these are industrial
starches that must go if we're going to
turn this health around. But that being
said, I am just ecstatic at this new
flip on the food pyramid. I'm really
excited about what it's going to do for
our nation's health. And I'm real
curious what you think about this. So,
comment down below. I have a free
download that I want to give to you.
This free download is my daily routine
in a checklist. This is a routine that I
use every day to feel like I'm 18 years
old, even though I'm 60 years old. and I
want to give it to you for free. And so
there's a little link down below. Click
it and definitely download that. And
since the biggest thing that's missing
in these new guidelines is intermittent
fasting, if you don't know about that
and you haven't implemented it, you must
watch this video right now because this
will explain exactly how to do it.
