You do not want to fail this brain test
for early dementia. It's only a 30-se
secondond test. I want you to get a
piece of paper and a pen out right now.
And I'm going to do the test with you.
Early dementia is not just about memory
loss. It could also be about the speed
at which you process information to slow
down your attention, your focus. We're
going to take the 30 secondond test
together to see if there's any issues
with early dementia. This is actually
called the clock drawing test. When I
press start, you're going to draw a
clock with the time set at 10 minutes
after 11:00. And then after the test,
I'm going to show you what to do if you
have a problem with dementia. Okay, are
you ready? All right, start.
Okay, stop. This is what I have right
here. If you could see this thing right
there. First question is, were there any
numbers that were jumbled up or missing?
Did you write in all 12 numbers all
spaced out correctly? Were the hands of
the clock facing in the right
directions? Did you reverse the hour and
the minute hands or did you have that
correct or did you not complete this
project in 30 seconds? Now, what's
interesting about this test is that it's
one of the most sensitive indicators for
early uh cognitive deficits and it's
even more accurate than memory test
which is pretty wild. Certain
neurologists use this in early
indicators of Alzheimer's, dementia. So,
if you didn't pass that test, that's
fine. Don't worry about it. I'm going to
show you what to do to reverse early
dementia. And by the time you get 50, it
starts to accelerate. And so the big
question is, and what causes dementia?
One of the biggest things that starts to
break down the brain is sugar. Sugar
shrinks the brain, especially uh a part
of the brain called hippocampus, which
is all about memory. In fact, look at
type 2 diabetes with a diabetic. They
have a lot of brain issues. This is why
Alzheimer's is called type three
diabetes. But there's other things that
also can cause this problem. Chronic
stress and they're more at risk for
cognitive problems. What's really wild
is one night of bad sleep causes the
brain to be just a little bit smaller
and even can create a little plaquing
that begins. Why is that? Because one of
the purposes of sleep is to detoxify the
brain. The question is, how do we
reverse this shrinkage? How do we
protect our brains from getting early
dementia in the first place? There are
two things we want to increase in the
brain. One is something called
BDNF, brain derived neurotrophic factor
because it helps to grow brain tissue
and it helps to prevent cognitive
problems and depression and all sorts of
problems with the brain. And now I'm
going to go through things that can
increase your BDNF. And the last one
being the most powerful. Number one,
intermittent fasting increases BDNF,
especially when you start doing a
16-hour fasting cycle with an 8 hour
eating window, which actually is very
easy to do. Number two, cold therapy.
Whether it's a cold shower or a cold
plunge, when you start introducing this
cold therapy, oh my gosh, it's amazing
what it does for the brain. It creates
all sorts of stress that indirectly
activates certain systems that help you
become very alert. your mood starts
changing. If you had a lower mood,
you're going to end up with a much
higher mood. It's really good for people
who have depression and especially
anxiety. And of course, people have
anxiety about getting into the cold bath
because every single cell in your body
is saying no. But the way that I deal
with it is I just basically tell my
body, you're getting in, you don't have
a choice. And then all of a sudden, I'm
calm and I focus my attention going
outward. I don't focus on the the cold.
It works. Next one is deep sleep.
Getting deep sleep detoxifies the brain.
It's one of the most potent things to
help heal the brain and recovery of the
entire body, especially for dementia.
Next one is learning difficult tasks or
skills. In other words, challenging your
mental state to do certain things and
learn things can actually increase BDNF.
And the last more powerful thing to
increase BDNF is highintensity interval
training, especially as you get older.
And that type of exercise is the most
potent to increase your brain function.
And of course, having a sedentary
lifestyle where you don't exercise, your
brain just shrivels up. What's the other
thing now that can help reverse dementia
or even protect you against dementia?
Ketones. Ketones are an alternative fuel
to glucose and they're really good for
the brain. How do we increase ketones?
Low carb diet. Bring your carbs way
down. And by doing that, you're opposing
the thing that actually causes dementia,
which is high sugar in the blood. A low
carb diet can reverse diabetes in 10
weeks. Then we get into MCT oil, coconut
oil that has ketones. You can feed your
brain. You can actually take ketones as
a supplement. That's actually really
good for someone that has dementia.
Another thing that you could do to boost
up your ketones is we want to keep the
insulin low. If you keep your protein in
a moderate amount and not too high, you
can also keep your insulin a little bit
lower and get into deeper ketosis. To
get into ketosis, it's not about like
having a massive amount of protein. You
want a moderate amount of protein, but
you don't want to worry about
restricting your fats. Tell me how you
did on the test. Thank you so much for
watching and I will see you in the next
