The 10 dangerous foods RFK is in the
process of banning. These things that
we're going to talk about don't even
remotely come close to being food. The
amount of money, big corporations, big
pharma, big food, the chemical
companies, the amount of push back that
he's getting internally and externally
is off the charts. Today, we're going to
talk about all the good things that he's
doing. Starting with number one, getting
rid of the food dyes. There's absolutely
no benefit to having these toxic
colorings in our foods. What's really
interesting about the link of cancer is
there's this thing called the Delaney
clause. This was something that was
passed that prohibits uh food
ingredients found to cause cancer in
either humans or animals to not be put
in our food supply. Of course, in 1996,
there was another thing that was uh
passed called the food quality and
protection act allowing these chemicals
to be put back into the food supply.
Thus, the many different things in our
food supply that do cause cancer. Moving
on to number two, the SNAP program. This
is the food stamp program. RFK is
actively and aggressively working on
getting rid of the junk from that
program. In other words, not allowing
you to use food stamps to buy soda with
high fructose corn syrup. There's a lot
of push back on this, including the
American Heart Association, funded by
the junk food industry and big pharma.
Just so happens their messaging aligns
with those two very closely. In a recent
debate involving this bill that they
were supposed to be approving to not
include junk foods in the SNAP program,
guess who showed up? A representative
from the American Heart Association
pushing back on that. You have to
realize that the taxpayers pay for the
SNAP program. What is wrong with this
picture? Well, you are paying for this
problem three different times. you're
paying for the raw material to be sold
very cheaply and then you're actually
paying a second time paying people to
buy those exact products and when they
get a chronic disease you pay a third
time funding the Medicaid program. So I
totally back up RFK for getting the junk
out of the SNAP program. Number three,
titanium dioxide they put in food to
make the food look more pure or
healthier in some way. In France they
banned it because they found it caused
DNA damage. It has the ability to get
into the brain. It's also considered a
carcinogen. That's an ingredient that
RFK is working on getting out of our
food supply. Number four, brominated
vegetable oil. You have to realize it
has nothing to do with actual
vegetables. It's actually a flame
retardant. Use it in soft drinks. That's
right, soda. It's considered safe. It's
also banned in Europe, Japan, and India,
but of course, it's allowed in the US.
Number five, potassium bromade. RFK is
also trying to get rid of this,
especially with children's lunches. It
allows the dough to be fluffy and has
the right texture. It's also a possible
carcinogen to humans. Also, as another
side note, it's been banned in 30
countries except the US. Some people
think that RFK has the ability in HHS
just press a ban button and ban it like
that. No. And I'm even shocked how much
he's getting done because he's up
against a lot of resistance. Number six,
high fructose corn syrup. Most people
know this is really bad. High fructose
corn syrup will definitely lead to liver
damage, fatty liver, type 2 diabetes,
heart disease. I know a lot of activists
have been trying to get this banned or
at least limited within the children's
school system. with not too much luck.
High fructose corn syrup is one out of
4,000 different products that they
extract from corn. It's been highly
changed from the original corn. It's
genetically modified and we subsidize
it, which means you as a taxpayer pay
for a lot of it. Number seven, seed
oils. An average person consumes 25 to
30% of all their calories being these
seed oils. These seed oils incorporate
themselves into our membranes around our
cells, around our brain, around our
tissues. They go in, but they don't come
out very easily. If you stop eating them
today, it's going to take over a year to
get them out of the system. They keep
the body inflamed, and they create all
sorts of serious toxic side effects.
Number eight, ultrarocessed foods. If we
go deeper into this ultrarocessed food,
we're really only talking mainly about
three different things. synthetic sugar,
synthetic starch, and seed oils. All
three of these ingredients are
subsidized. That means you're paying for
most of it. The intention of RFK is to
remove most of this ultrarocessed food
from the children's lunches, hospitals,
from the senior assisted living homes.
In Arizona, they're working towards
getting rid of the ultrarocessed food
calories from their school system by
year 2026, which is exciting. Before we
get into number nine, I need to share
with you a very powerful free app that I
created right here called Dr. Berg Junk
Food Meter that allows you to quickly
scan for these three ingredients in your
pantry, refrigerator, or even at the
grocery store. You can start really
finding out how much of these three
things are in your food. All you have to
do is download it. It's free. Pull up a
food, hover over the barcode, and start
scanning. And it quickly scans and shows
you how much starch, seed oil, and
sugar. You can see in this one, there's
19 g of sugar in this yogurt. Crazy
amounts. And there's some starch as
well. Let's pick another food. Pop-Tart.
Holy macro. Look it. You have starch, 39
g. Got some seed oils in there. And you
got sugar in there. You can see the junk
food score at the top is a 10, which
means it's really, really bad. It tells
you what kind of ingredients that we're
reading. Let's do another food. Hot dog.
This one has starch. So, there's hidden
starch. What kind of starch? They're
putting corn syrup in there and modified
food starch. Not too healthy. At the end
of this video, I put a link down below
for you to download the free app. Check
it out. Use it to improve your health.
Number nine, artificial sweeteners. The
difference between artificial sweeteners
and sugar alcohols. With sugar alcohols,
those are made by fermenting actual
natural ingredients. Artificial
sweeteners use chemicals like petroleum.
They create a lot more damage like
altering your gut microbes. When you
consume these artificial sweeteners, it
is very addicting. Once you start, you
can't stop, but it can cause cancer.
Number 10, this is another thing that
RFK is working on which I'm really
excited about. Getting rid of this
loophole gross generally recognized as
safe. This FDA rule that was passed
allows industry to do their own testing
to regulate whether it's safe or not.
What do you think the odds of a company
to do safety studies on their own
products are going to say, "Oh, nope.
It's it's not safe. We can't put it
out." Well, I'm going to tell you right
now, if you leave it up to the industry
to determine if it's safe or not, it's
always going to be safe. with no
independent third-party credible safety
studies without even telling the FDA. I
mean, think about it. Trans fats were
considered to be safe. Trans fats, the
stuff that causes heart disease, that
was considered to be safe. In the media,
in the news, what you're hearing now is
there's no real evidence to show that
junk food and chemicals are that bad as
long as it's done in moderation. Well,
have you ever tried to eat junk food in
balance or moderation? The chemicals in
there make it super addicting. You can't
just have one. The American Heart
Association was pushing for we don't
need more regulation. We should just
educate people. In order to educate
people, you have to have the correct
information to educate them on. With all
the bias and conflicts of interest, what
are you going to educate them on? That
junk food is okay. on top of the
billion-dollar marketing budgets that
these companies have putting out in the
media to counter this education and
don't have alterprocessed foods in the
dietary food guidelines because that
pushes it into the hospitals, the
assisted living programs, the school
system, the military, etc. Last point
about this topic, about the arguments
that they use, well, everything is
processed. No, that's not true. They're
similar, but they're not the same.
There's degree of processing. And when
we're talking about ultrarocess, just
think about the word ultra. Ultra means
extreme, way above minimal processing. I
just got done talking about a lot of bad
foods. I want to shift gears and talk
about the top foods that you should be
eating right now that should be on your
plate that are nutrientdense, that are
whole, that will make you super super
healthy. Please watch that video right
now. I put the video right here. That's
right. Click it right here.
