Hi, I'm back with another video on
vertigo. And if you have vertigo, you
are going to be very excited to watch
this video because I'm not just going to
show you what to do to get immediate
relief. I'm going to show you what's
behind this as far as a root cause. The
most common type of vertigo is this
BPPV,
benign proximal positional vertigo. It's
a fancy name for these little tiny
calcium crystals that have broken off
and they travel to another part of the
ear and it creates dizziness and
spinning when you're in different
positions. If you're bending over,
you're going to feel dizzy and spinning.
If we take a look at the ear, we have
information that comes into the ear and
it goes to this little membrane right
here and then the vibrations transfer
over to a different mechanism. Uh, this
thing right here, which is just quite
fascinating because it's a 3D gyroscope
that allows you to know where you are in
certain positions and also in motion,
which is quite miraculous how it works.
So basically the most common uh form of
vertigo is when the calcium crystals
break off right here and they end up in
these little circular canals right
through here. You have these tiny little
hairs in the inside of your ear that
pick up information and these hairs are
connected to nerves that go into the
brain. In order for this to be very very
sensitive, there has to be a gel around
it. And your body's amazing because in
order to really make this super
sensitive, you need to add mass to the
top of this gel layer to enhance the
effectiveness of these hairs picking up
more information. So these little tiny
calcium crystals, which are normal in
this position, are just little weights
that are stuck in the gel. And so it's a
normal thing and it's quite miraculous.
But the big question I want to answer
right now is why is it that some of
these crystals start dislodging and
moving in different locations
in different parts of the ear where they
should not be? Post-menopausal women are
higher risk for this. And then the other
clue is there's actually these tiny
little proteins that are supposed to
keep this calcium
in this place in the body. They're
called calcium binding proteins. So, I
did a deep dive into those proteins and
there's several of them and I wanted to
know what controls them and I found out
what controls them. They're regulated by
vitamin D3. That's right. In fact, a lot
of people have vertigo are extremely
deficient in vitamin D3. And it makes
sense when you step back and look at it
because vitamin D out of all the
vitamins has so many different
functions. It controls
2400 different genes. So, it's not just
about calcium metabolism or involved in
bone tissue, but it's involved in your
immune system. It's involved as an
anti-inflammatory. It's involved in
regulating your blood pressure.
Apparently, it's also involved in the
calcium binding proteins which are
supposed to keep these guys in check.
And so when I looked at the research on
this, wow, there is a tremendous amount
of research on vitamin D and vertigo as
far as taking vitamin D and even
preventing this type of vertigo. Here's
one right here. Prevention of
reoccurrent benign peroximal positional
vertigo with vitamin D supplementation,
a metaanalysis.
Now, there is some of the research
that's mixed, and I I figured out why
that is. Because unless you're going to
take enough vitamin D, for some people,
it's not going to work. If you're going
to take just a tiny amount and with all
the barriers that people have with
vitamin D, genetic, if you have insulin
resistance, if you're overweight, also
more importantly, if you're not taking
enough vitamin D every day, then you're
not going to actually create the effect
because the type of vitamin D that you
need to really control this is in a part
of the system where your body needs at
least as a maintenance between 6,000 and
10,000 IUs of vitamin D3 every single
day. In other words, if you look at the
research that shows people taking enough
vitamin D, you're going to see a really
good outcome versus if you're taking
just a tiny bit, you know, 600 IUs,
which is the RDA for vitamin D, which is
ridiculous. You're probably not going to
see a lot of results, especially if
you're just taking it like once a week
or once every other week. Vitamin D
actually rebuilds this crystal anchoring
system that I'm talking about right
here. There's a couple other little
pieces of this puzzle I want to share
with you because vitamin D doesn't work
without magnesium. And then I also did a
deep dive into magnesium in vertigo and
I found some really interesting
information. Magnesium is one of the
master controllers over calcium. So, the
combination of vitamin D3 and magnesium
I think would be the best solution for
vertigo. And I would also throw in their
vitamin K2. Why? Because vitamin K2
helps tell the body where calcium should
go. If you're missing vitamin K2, you
end up with more calcium in the wrong
place.
And that could be related to this right
here. There's just not a lot of research
on K2, but there is research on vitamin
D3 and magnesium, but there's separate
studies. I have not found any study that
actually tests for both of these items,
I think, because they want to isolate
one variable at a time, and it's hard to
know what's working. But what I would do
if I were you, if I had this condition,
I would take both of these, and I would
add this right here. And I would
probably take no less than 10,000 IUs
every single day. So now that you have
that, when you start taking vitamin D
and you're trying to solve this problem,
could take a week, it could take two
weeks, it could take a little bit longer
because you're actually going after a
root cause. And so many people are so
deficient in vitamin D. Um, it just
doesn't happen overnight when you take a
little vitamin D. So what can you do in
the meantime to resolve vertigo? There
is a great simple procedure called the
Eple maneuver. So, let's roll right into
it right now.
>> I'll bring my legs up onto the table.
I'll turn my head 45° to the left. And
then I'll lie back.
My head is supported on the bed, but
just off the edge of the pillow so that
my head is tilted slightly below
horizontal.
Here, I'm going to note if I have
vertigo and how strong the vertigo is.
Okay, now I'll sit back up.
Pause here for a few seconds to let
everything calm back down. And then turn
your head 45° to the right. And repeat.
I'll tip back. My head is 45° to the
right and slightly below horizontal,
supported on the bed off the edge of the
pillow. Here, I'll note any vertigo
symptoms and how severe they are, and
then I'll return to sitting.
For the purposes of this demonstration,
let's say that when I tilted my head
back, I had severe vertigo when my head
was turned to the right. That indicates
that the right ear canal is affected.
So, I want to do the treatment on the
right side. I'll explain this as I go
along.
I'll bring my legs up onto the table.
I'll turn my head to the right 45°
and then lie back.
I'm going to stay in this position until
the vertigo stops and then wait another
30 seconds.
After that 30 seconds has passed, I'll
move on to the second position. I'll
turn my head to the left so that it's
now 45°
to the left. Again, I'll wait until the
vertigo stops and then another 30
seconds. For severe cases, you might
want to wait up to about a minute in
each position.
Okay. After the time has passed, I'll
move into the third position, which is
on my left side with my head tilted down
into the table about 45°.
You can go ahead and rest your head on
the table
like this.
Okay, after my vertigo stops and waiting
another 30 seconds, I'll move into the
final position.
I'll sit up at the side with my chin
tucked down. In this position, wait at
least 30 seconds. And more than likely,
you'll need to wait a couple of minutes.
You want to really rest in this
position. Let your head and everything
settle back down again before you get up
and move on with your activity.
>> I have a free download that I want to
give to you. This free download is my
daily routine and a checklist. This is a
routine that I use every day to feel
like I'm 18 years old even though I'm 60
years old and I want to give it to you
for free. And so there's a little link
down below. Click it and definitely
download that. All right. I wanted to
keep this video right to the point. I
hope now you have a solution from
vertigo. And because so many different
conditions relate to a vitamin D or
magnesium deficiency, you really need to
watch this video right here because this
is going to take you into a whole area
that you probably never considered
before as far as what vitamin D can do
to the rest of the body. I put it up
right here. Check it out.
