We're going to talk about the 10
vitamins and minerals you should never
ever take, but not for the reason that
they're ineffective, but for the bigger
reason they can be very very dangerous.
And I'm really surprised that they even
allow these ingredients to be sold in
your vitamins. Okay? And I I think I
know why because simply they're so
cheap. You can make so much profit on
them and so there's a huge margin. And
that's pretty much why they do it. Most
of the big vitamin companies out there
are owned by big pharma, big chemical
companies, and the junk food industry.
And so their motives are the best
margins possible. Let's take the first
one, synthetic vitamin A. You should
never ever consume synthetic vitamin A.
Synthetic vitamin A has to be converted
into the active form and the conversion
is not very efficient. So what that
means is you get this buildup of
synthetic vitamin A in the liver and the
fat cell and that can be very very
toxic. If you have the situation in
pregnancy that child is susceptible to a
birth defect and it also can interfere
with vitamin D and vitamin K2 and
increase your risk for fractures because
you have bone loss and they also put
synthetic vitamin A in a lot of skin
products like lotions and things like
that. The problem is when that synthetic
vitamin A gets exposed to UV radiation
now we just increase the carcinogenic
effect. You're going to identify it by
this right here usually retinol
palmitate or retinol acetate. Instead
get your vitamin A from egg yolks,
liver, cod liver and not from the
synthetic version of vitamin A. We need
vitamin A for the internal mucous
membranes of our sinuses, of our lungs,
of our colon. We need vitamin A to be
able to see, especially in the dark. The
immune system depends on vitamin A. So
vitamin A is super important. Let's go
to number two, synthetic betaarotene.
When I talk about betaarotene, a lot of
times people think, oh, that is vitamin
A, isn't it? No, it is not. Even though
uh some people think it is beta carotene
has to turn into the active form of
vitamin A. You know you might think
about beta carotene and carrots. You
would have to consume a tremendous
amount of carrots to get even close to
the RDAs for the active form of vitamin
A. You know they make synthetic
betaarotene from colar petroleum. And
this is why they found when they did
large studies on beta carotene the
synthetic version they saw an increase
of lung cancer in smokers by I think
like 18%. Now why would that be in
smokers and maybe not other people? Well
first of all smokers have a lot of
damage in their lungs making their lungs
very vulnerable and weak and even
susceptible to getting cancer. So
apparently the synthetic version of beta
carotene comes in there and flips the
switch and activates the cancer. So the
natural version is protective. The
synthetic version is not protective. It
can create problems. Let's go to number
three. Folic acid. Vitamin B9. It's one
of the B vitamins. But folic acid is
different than the active form of B9,
which is folate. So it's another
synthetic vitamin. Here's the problem
with taking folic acid. 30 to 40% of the
world population has a problem with a
certain gene. It's a alteration of this
gene called MTHFR.
The simple explanation is that this gene
helps you convert folic acid into the
active form folate. And if you have a
problem with that gene, you're not going
to do that. So what happens is you start
building up this folic acid in the
blood. And then we get a risk for
cancer. Then we get a suppressed immune
system and all sorts of symptoms that
they might not connect the dots to this
right here. Unless they had a DNA test
and they're aware that they have this
gene issue. And then also they're not
even realizing they're consuming that in
their foods quite often. You want to
read the label and make sure you take
folate or just consume foods high in
folate. Dark leafy green vegetables have
a good amount of folate. All right, the
next one is number four. Synthetic B12.
The name for that is cyanocobalamine.
Now notice cyano. That's cyanide. It has
just a tiny bit of cyanide. This form of
B12 is definitely not as bioavailable as
the natural form which is called
methylcobalamine.
And the natural version stays in the
body a lot longer compared to this
synthetic version. In order for this
version to convert to the active
version, it requires glutathione. So if
you're consuming a lot of this, like a
lot of people are because it's in a lot
of things. It's in energy drinks, it's
in a lot of food products, and it's in a
lot of supplements. It's going to then
deplete you of glutathione, which is a
major antioxidant. And so let's say, for
example, someone's a smoker and they're
taking this. And just so you know,
there's a lot of chemicals that you get
from smoking. One is a little bit of
cyanide, and that can build up with the
extra cyanide from B12, and that can
create some toxicity, especially if you
have genetics that have poor detox
pathways, uh, like I do. So, if you had
a DNA test, it will actually show you
how well you're able to detoxify. And if
you have a problem with those
detoxification pathways, you want to
avoid synthetic toxins as much as
possible. It's really easy to get the
natural version of B12 from red meat or
liver. So that's really where I
recommend you get that from. Number
five, calcium carbonate. If you take a
look at the first ingredient in a lot of
the common popular one, the first
ingredient of all of them is calcium
carbonate. That's why the bottle is so
heavy. It literally has rocks in it as
the first ingredient, which means it's
probably the majority of that product,
which is just mind-blowing. It can
actually build up into the body where it
dumps into the arteries or the kidneys.
Okay, but that's not even the biggest
problem with this. The biggest problem
is it can increase the risk of heart
attacks. And in nature, with our food
supply, you never just eat calcium like
this. And so, you should really try to
get your calcium from dairy, cheese,
okay, is a good one. yogurt, kefir, but
you can also get calcium from certain
leafy greens as well. Calcium is one
mineral that we have to be careful of
because we don't get rid of it very
easily. Calcium also needs to work with
magnesium. So, the more calcium you
take, you better increase your magnesium
to a 1:1 ratio. And if anyone tells you
you need like 10 times more calcium than
magnesium, don't believe them. You need
a one:1 ratio. And a lot of these one a
days you it's not even close to a one to
one ratio. So we're creating more of a
magnesium deficiency problem when we're
loading up with all this calcium. Then
we get to iron. Iron is actually very
corrosive and very dangerous to our
bodies because we really have no
mechanism to get rid of it other than
you know giving blood or a woman
menrating. It's especially dangerous to
men and postmenopausal women. But the
type of iron that you'll see in a lot of
supplements is ferrris sulfate. Oh my
gosh, this is like it's like literally
it's like rust. I think one out of two
or 300 people have a condition called
hemocromattosis where this is even more
of a problem. Even if you take normal
amounts of iron, it's going to be even
more deadly because the body will just
hold on to it very very tightly. So, if
you're cooking from iron skillets or if
you're taking supplements with iron, but
also they enrich a lot of foods with
iron, like a lot of wheat products and
grains. Of course, if you're following
my channel, you're probably not eating
that. But if you're not following my
channel, you might be consuming those
things. Typically, if you have too much
iron, you're going to be more at risk
for type 2 diabetes, liver issues,
Parkinson's, Alzheimer's. Other than
that, you'd be totally fine. So, I
highly recommend that you just really
avoid any supplements with iron or any
fortified food with iron. Get your iron
from foods. Even if you're anemic, I
would recommend consuming liver, red
meat, or something like that. But I
wouldn't recommend a supplement,
especially ferrris sulfate. Let's go to
number seven. Magnesium oxide. You
probably know how important magnesium
is, but the form of it is super
important. Oxide is like a really cheap
form. This form only absorbs like 3%. So
if that pill was 500 milligrams, they
would only be getting 20 milligrams from
one pill. That's insignificant. And so
as soon as they start increasing it, now
they're going to get diarrhea because it
pulls a lot of water into the colon. And
then when they have diarrhea, and then
guess what happens? They flush out the
electrolytes. So this is not a good
form. you're not going to get enough
because the absorption and then as soon
as you start increasing it, you get
diarrhea. The best form of magnesium is
magnesium glycinate. You're going to
absorb like 80 to 85%. You're not going
to get diarrhea. You're going to get the
benefits of magnesium, which is better
sleep, lower cortisol, uh less muscle
spasm, and more energy. Let's go to
number eight. Synthetic vitamin D. The
name for this is ergoaliferol.
Okay. And the way that they make this is
they radiate uh fungus or yeast with UV
radiation. It's not as potent. And so
these conversions of synthetic D3 to the
active form of vitamin D are not nearly
as efficient as the uh D3. Also, the way
that it's transported, there's a protein
that delivers this vitamin D to the
kidney and liver, and it's called a
vitamin D binding protein. Well, with
vitamin D2, it's not really connected or
bound very very strongly compared to D3.
So, you don't end up getting the same
effect as you do the D3. And of course,
the most common doctor prescription for
vitamin D is D2, not D3. I think because
you can't patent D3 because it's
natural. It's the most important vitamin
of anything. And and a lot of people are
deficient. They don't get enough sun.
When you're lacking vitamin D, your
immune system suffers. you get bone
pain, you get depressed and many other
issues as well. Number nine, if you see
a supplement that is adding omega-6 fats
and maybe in the form of linoleic acid,
don't take it. And I recently did a
video on dog food. They were adding this
ingredient and I'm like, I wonder if
people know we don't need more omega6.
We have way too much. We need a ratio,
one:1 ratio of omega6 to omega3. Well,
guess what? An average person in the US
has a ratio of 25 times more omega-6
than omega-3. Omega6 is very
pro-inflammatory.
Omega-3 is anti-inflammatory. The
average person consumes 25 to 30% of all
of their calories being the seed oils.
It's highly inflammatory. You want to
get your omegas from fish, cod liver
oil, grass-fed meat, things like that.
And then number 10 is copper. Now,
listen, we need copper, okay? We need
zinc, we need all these trace minerals,
but if you're taking the cheap version
in higher amounts, it can be very toxic.
It's very important with a copper zinc
ratio. We need 10 times as much zinc to
copper and we need to kind of keep it in
that ratio for everything to work
because if you're taking a lot of zinc
that can create a copper deficiency. If
you're taking a lot of copper without
zinc that can mess up your zinc as well.
But too much copper can flip things from
being an antioxidant and create
oxidation. amaloid plaquing in
Alzheimer's, inflammation in your brain,
and in relationship to Alzheimer's,
they're calling it the new aluminum
because aluminum is also toxic to the
brain with Alzheimer's, but so is
copper. So, too much copper in the wrong
form ends up accumulating in your brain
and in your liver. Get your trace
minerals, especially copper, from
shellfish or liver or dark chocolate.
And if you do take copper, make sure you
take it with the other trace minerals in
the right combination. Now, I briefly
touched on magnesium oxide and magnesium
glycinate. There are many other forms
with different purposes, different
absorptions. I created a video on that
that's super interesting. I think you'd
really enjoy it and I put it up right
here. Check it out.
