Five things that your skin can tell you
about your digestive system, your gut.
It blows me away that so many people are
treating their skin with lotions,
creams, medications, but they're
ignoring the root cause, which is in the
gut. Now, when I get through all five,
I'll tell you how to correct them, but I
want to kind of just touch on each one
first. Number one, altered microbiome.
That might mean we just don't have
enough good guys and we have too many
bad guys. That could come from your diet
or especially taking an antibiotic. One
of the most common effects of having
alteration in your gut is rosacea. Even
if you look at how they treat rosacea,
they give you an antibiotic because they
want to kill off the excess uh bad
bacteria. And it does work temporarily.
It's going to come back actually worse.
This imbalance in the microbiome creates
inflammation that then becomes systemic
and it can go throughout the body, but
it shows up in your cheeks. Now, there's
other problems in the digestive tract.
Number two, SIBO, small intestinal
bacterial overgrowth. That's a condition
where you have the microbes really in
the wrong place. Most of your microbes
should be in the large intestine. But
when those microbes start to go up into
the small intestine, you develop
nutritional deficiencies because these
microbes compete for your food and you
definitely have a lot of inflammation,
sometimes arthritis, but you can also
have rosacea. I'm telling you, if you
want really nice skin, just fix your gut
and you will have beautiful skin. Number
three is inflammation in the gut. And
you'll feel like a pain or tightness or
bloating in the gut. And the great
majority of the time, it's what the
person's eating. The big culprit is
gluten in wheat and other grains. And
here's what you need to know about
inflammation. The more inflammation in
the gut that you have, the less you can
absorb zinc. A deficiency of zinc can
cause rashes, but also deficiency of
zinc will cause the flaky, scaly, red
skin around your nose, around your
mouth. But deeper it's the inflammation
the gut that won't let you absorb zinc.
The worse off your digestive system is,
the fewer foods you should eat in a
given meal. And this is why carnivore
seems to be really good for a lot of
people because you're eliminating a lot
of different things that could be
aggravating the gut. When you think
about zinc, it's a great healer of
wounds, ulcers, leaky gut. As a side
note, there's a couple other things that
can cause this flaky, dry, scaly skin.
High levels of omega6 fatty acids from
seed oils and not having enough omega-3
fatty acids from fish and cod liver oil.
Okay, so that's inflammation. But let's
say that inflammation now has become
chronic and it's going to be there for a
period of time. Now you're going to lose
your villi, the little rootlike
projections on the inside of the colon.
And the purpose of these villi is to
have more surface area to absorb things.
You're going to have a hard time
absorbing nutrients and especially
vitamin D. There are a lot of autoimmune
skin disorders that are directly related
to low vitamin D because once you don't
have enough vitamin D, your immune
system is vulnerable. One solution is to
take a lot more of it. Okay? So that
will penetrate into the areas that need
to absorb it. Being out in the sun on a
regular basis or even using certain
types of light therapy. And the last one
is there's something going on with your
gallbladder. Maybe you had it removed or
you just don't produce enough bile
salts. If you don't have enough bile
now, we can't break down and digest the
fat soluble vitamins, especially vitamin
A. And if you're deficient in vitamin A,
you may start developing those little uh
goose pimples on the back of your arms
or your legs, in which case you need to
start taking things that are high in
vitamin A. Beef liver or even cod liver
oil has a really good source of active
vitamin A called retinol. And the cool
thing about cod liver oil, it's high in
omega3 fatty acids, which also can help
those little goose pimple things in the
back of your arm. And so if you don't
have a gallbladder or you're sluggish
with bile, you might need to take bile.
You can get ox bile. You can get
purified bile salts or even something
called tutka which works really good.
Then what happens is one of the symptoms
could be itchy skin. So what's at the
bottom of that? Well, it's your diet. It
could be stress. It could be that you're
taking estrogen therapy like birth
control pills or hormone replacement
therapy. Or it could be that you have
too much insulin that's depleting your
bile because you eat a lot of
carbohydrates. A good probiotic would be
very beneficial. Also, consuming
fermented foods, sauerkraut, kimchi,
yogurt, raw milk, cheese, actually
eating like raw salad that's grown in
your garden. It also has microbes that
can be a form of a probiotic. Believe it
or not, if you have SIBO, a lot of
bloating, and you get worse when you eat
fiber, you're going to have to go on the
carnivore for a while. This is why so
many people clear up their autoimmune
diseases as well as their skin issues
when they go carnivore because they're
eliminating a lot of things that are
irritating the gut. And meat is loaded
with glutamine that can heal the gut.
What would be good for SIBO is to do
intermittent fasting. Maybe one meal a
day. Maybe acidify the stomach with some
betain hydide or apple cider vinegar.
That could help you greatly. But there's
one more thing. You can make your own
probiotic which is really good if you
had a history of antibiotics or even
SIBO. Aluteride can live in the small
intestine as well as the large
intestine. And it has multiple effects.
It creates a very acidic area where
these bad guys can't live. It gives you
lots of benefits with your digestion.
And a lot of people who had acne will no
longer have acne. Why? Because it can
help heal the gut to the point where you
now you don't have all this systemic
inflammation that's spreading up on your
skin. The more damaged your gut is, the
stricter your diet needs to be with
certain foods because ultimately the
best way to heal the gut is to clean up
the diet. So, I really hope you now
understand this huge connection between
your skin and your colon and what to do
about it.
