This is why I stretch every single day.
Here are the benefits that I found
personally with myself. It helps my
sleep. It helps reduce pain and decrease
inflammation. And it takes me out of
what's called the fight orflight mode.
And I also stretch to counter all of the
injuries that I've had over the years.
Most people have this confusion that the
problem is the muscle. The muscle's too
tight, so I need to stretch. That's
actually not true. What really becomes
tight is something that we're going to
talk about called the fashca. If you
think of a wet suit that surrounds the
entire body, that would be fascia. And
the thing about fashca, it's totally
connected. There's a very interesting
short clip I want to share with you on
the dynamics of how living or how alive
your fashc is. Check this out. Alan
launch of the National Institutes of
Health, however, made a bizarre
discovery while learning acupuncture.
She noticed that as the needle was
inserted into the skin, something seemed
to be grabbing and pulling at it. When
Lajivan took these results to the lab,
an MRI revealed that the collagen fibers
of the fascia were actually winding
themselves around the needle like
spaghetti on a fork. And what's more,
the fibroblast sent out chemical signals
to the surrounding tissue, allowing it
to expand and then relax. The
fibroblasts that are inside the tissues
up to several centimeters away, not just
only at the needle, they expand. They
they respond. It relaxes the tissue. So,
the research is showing that the best
thing for fascia is for it to move, to
stretch, and not be stagnant. But what
happens if you don't really move at all?
If you're super sedentary, you haven't
tried to touch your toes in a very long
time, and you have body parts that
haven't been through their full range of
motion in a long, long while. When you
injure your fashcia, you develop scar
tissue. So, what happens? The fossil
layers can no longer glide. They get
stuck together like glue. Healthy
fashcia is supposed to be dynamic,
movable, flexible, and it even has
electrical properties. And unhealthy
fashcia, especially you've been injured,
develop some disorganized pattern of
connective tissue. And you might think,
"Oh, I just have stiff muscles." No, you
have a stiff fashcia. And I'm going to
teach you really amazing stretches that
I do every single night to undo the all
the bad effects of this accumulated
stress that we have in our bodies.
Probably the worst case scenario fascial
problem is when someone has contraurs.
You see people with bad posture that are
literally stuck forward and they can't
get out of this posture. So it's very
unfortunate where this connective tissue
literally keeps you in a frozen state
and now it's grown in that way and it's
stuck and it's very difficult if not
impossible to undo that. If you start to
find your body in a certain position,
you want to actively and aggressively
undo that position so you can keep
things erect and keep your motion in
your body. I mean, very similar to when
I broke my leg. And in just 3 weeks, I
had a cast down there. Well, when I took
that cast off, literally my whole leg
and the ankle was just kind of frozen. I
had to undo it. And yes, there was
atrophy of the muscle, but the fashca
actually grew in a certain position.
Why? Because there was no motion. I
didn't move it and I had to break up
those adhesions and get it back to where
it should be. If I just left it like
that, it would just literally over time
just fuse in that position. And so
there's a right way to stretch fashcia
and there's a wrong way. The more that
you can
elongate that tissue, the better versus
just a two-dimensional thing where maybe
you're just touching your toes. I mean,
that might help stretch your lower back,
but I'm going to go through a lot deeper
stretches. What you're going to be doing
in this first stretch is you're going to
be holding this uh band behind your
back. Stretching all the stuff in the
front upper chest and shoulder area.
This is where we hold a lot of tension
and where gravity starts pulling it
down. So, we're going to reverse that.
Basically, leverage using uh the band
behind your back while you are looking
in a certain direction and creating as
much uh length as possible in that area.
So, I might do this for like 30 seconds
and then I relax. This will take care of
the tension in your back and the neck
and the shoulders. Now, we're going to
stretch the side of your back and
underneath your arm and the shoulder all
at once where we're doing a lateral
bending exercise. And this really
loosens up your shoulders by stretching
in a position that you don't normally
stretch in. So, we're going to do one
side and then we'll do the opposite side
as well. Number three is a very
important area because it stretches out
a muscle called the soaz. Soaz is a
muscle in your core that attaches the
upper body to the lower legs. And this
muscle is the flexor of the hips. This
gets tight when we sit all day or we
drive long distances. So we're going to
do this with one leg first. And you're
just going to mimic what I'm showing you
right now. So we're stretching one soaz
muscle at a time. Then the next stretch,
we're going to stretch both so muscles
at the same time where you're kneeling
and you're bending backwards and you're
taking all that fosial tension through
the core. This is like taking your spine
and kind of like a and ringing it out.
Okay, as we stabilize the lower part of
the body with one side and then we'll
reverse it and do the opposite side. All
right, this last one kind of combines a
couple things. is we're going to be
using the band to get all the upper
chest and your shoulders relaxed. So,
we're going to be kneeling and bending
backwards with this band. Boy, this will
take a lot of tension out of the entire
body. So, sometimes people will tell you
that the fashcia holds trauma. But when
we get into emotions and severe stress
and especially injury or even the most
severe type of stress, which is uh major
losses, I personally recommend the
technique they use in dietics. And the
word dynetics means what the mind is
doing to the body. So let's say for
example you're 5 years old and you're
climbing a tree and the tree is in the
front part of your yard and your
friend's next to you and as you hit the
ground your friend is laughing at you
and at the same time it's raining and
then your mother in the distance is
saying come in and eat. It's time to
eat. Of course, we have the impact uh
the dust uh around your sinuses and then
the emotions that you might have of
fear, the fear of falling. And on top of
everything, maybe you went slightly
unconscious. When that happens, things
in that moment can act as triggers 20
years down the road or even longer. So,
let's say 20 years down the road, it's
raining and you feel achiness in your
lower back and you're not sure why. or
someone's laughing at you and you
instead of having like a kind of a mild
reaction, you have a a really big
reaction to that. All of those triggers
in that moment of unconsciousness and
pain can act like triggers later in
life. And this really explains those
things that are hard to figure out,
especially with like phobias and weird
body problems that just come out of
nowhere. So yes, when you injure
yourself, I think that the fashcia and
the muscles can go in this protect mode.
But what really is underneath that is
the those mental pictures of that time
where you had an earlier injury. In
summary, if we all end up really stiff
when we get older, you want to actively
and aggressively prevent that from
happening. Stretching on a daily basis
is the ultimate answer for that. The
type of stretching that you do is very
important. I hope you now have some
deeper insights on fashcia and how you
should stretch that. Thanks for watching
and I will see you in the next
