It's a million dollar question that no
one is asking. Why are toxic drugs
classified under pharmaceutical grade,
yet food dyes are not given that
classification. They're certified for
use, but they're not pharmaceutical
grade. A lot of the toxic byproducts in
food dyes are not even in drugs. That
has never been tested long-term for
biological effects on humans. Certain
food dyes have been banned in Europe,
but they are allowed in the US. The junk
food industry that sells products with
food dyes are heavily self-regulated.
The FDA leaves it up to the food
companies to do their own studies.
There's also reports of FDA uh revolving
doors. People work in the food industry.
Now they're working for the FDA and they
go back to the food industry. In 2021,
there was a petition to ban a certain
food dye. Red number three for
cosmetics, which is a carcinogen even in
small amounts, but they still allow it
in children's cereal. There are a lot of
problems with food dyes causing
hyperactivity in children, neurological
effects. But the big reason that they
use these colorings in foods is to
psychologically cause people to eat more
of it. That's right. They've done
studies and found that if certain foods
have a certain color, people will eat
more of it. Certain colors increase
cravings, making it more attractive. But
in junk foods, uh, we don't have that.
We have this entire illusion making it
appear to be something that's fresh. So,
synthetic food dyes stimulate appetite.
People will eat more of it if they color
the food. And there's one report, uh,
Craft Food took out the coloring out of
their mac and cheese in a certain
country and the sales just dropped. So,
they put it back in. One synthetic
pigment made from petroleum is extremely
healthy. I'm going to get to that, but I
first want to talk a little bit about
natural coloring pigments in other
foods. Whether it's a pigment in egg
yolks or even the pigment in salmon that
makes it slightly reddish, natural
pigments are considered antioxidants.
And this is why these pigments are good
as anti-inflammatories. They help
protect the cells and they especially
help protect the mitochondria which is
the energy factory of the cell where
your body is taking food and converting
it into energy. Dark leafy green
vegetables have chlorophyll that's
green. Tomatoes have lycopine. These are
all pigments that have a lot of cool
beneficial health properties. And also
when you consume uh grass-fed meat or
beef or lamb, you get a lot of these
phytonutrients in the meat because these
animals eat grass and herbs. So now
let's talk about the one synthetic
petroleum dye that actually is good for
you. And this dye is called methylene
blue. I don't know if you've ever heard
of it. It was one of the first drugs
ever developed. And I'm going to answer
the question, why would this methylene
blue dye be so healthy whereas these
other dyes are not? That's because
methylene blue is pharmaceutical grade.
They used it for uh Alzheimer's and
Parkinson's, even bladder infections in
cancer. The other key difference that
you need to know between methylene blue
and these other synthetic food dyes,
they're both made from petroleum, but
the chemistry of methylene blue is
completely different. Really, what
methylene blue does it gives the body
energy even if there's damage within the
energy factory. It's definitely good for
any type of degenerative neurological
disorder. But what about cancer? Because
cancer originates from damaged
mitochondria. Methylene blue comes in
there, cleans things up, bypasses the
damage, and reduces a lot of the
oxidative stress, especially in your
brain, especially for any type of
chronic disease. This video is about
consuming certain foods with pigments.
Not artificial or fake pigments, but
real natural pigments. And not just in
plants, but in animal products too, like
the egg yolks. But even think about red
meat that has color, that has pigment,
too, right? So, when we get into the
synthetic dyes, these don't act as
antioxidants. They don't reduce
inflammation. They don't fix your
mitochondria. They actually make it
worse. They don't have nutritional
co-actors like the pigments in food
actually does. These have been linked to
ADD causing tumors and rats. And we
don't have a lot of long-term research
because who's going to spend money on
that? Probably not industry. It can
cause leaky gut in your GI tract. The
effects are worsened when combined with
preservatives. Well, I mean, take a look
at junk food. They have a lot of
preservatives. Some of these dyes are
bioaccumulative, so they build up in the
body. Whereas methylene blue does not
accumulate. It actually the kidneys get
rid of it very easily. And again,
because it's pharmaceutical grade, it
doesn't have these impurities that this
does. I hope now you have a little more
awareness on food dyes and why you
should have your children avoid things
like this with the dyes and things like
this and of course yourself. But
methylene blue would be something that
um could help you, but also don't
neglect the pigments in the rest of the
food. Thanks for watching and I will see
you in the next
