the number one mineral deficiency in
high blood pressure. Do you realize that
over 120 million Americans have high
blood pressure and that's nearly half of
all adults in the US and the treatment
is usually always the same? It's like
cut your salt, take a pill. Well,
there's a problem with that because 90%
of hypertension is called essential.
What does that mean essential? It means
unknown cause. And it's just bizarre
because over 50 years, billions of
dollars, and they still don't know the
cause of hypertension really. Today,
we're going to talk about what really is
causing this. It's super important to
know this, especially if you're trying
to get rid of your hypertension by
reducing salt because that could be the
opposite thing you want to be doing.
It's a great business model because you
can keep people on blood pressure
medication. And then in Wikipedia, you
can just write in there, well, we still
don't know the cause. We need to do more
research. Someday maybe we'll find out.
There's no motivation to do research on
this. Okay? It's not going to happen.
Why would any company, especially the
drug companies, ever invest even a dime
into trying to find the root cause of
hypertension? It's a business model.
They're not going to do it. In fact, if
you actually come up with a cure, you're
going to be attacked. So, today, I'm not
going to mention cure, but I'm going to
give you some data that might help
resolve your high blood pressure. So,
you go to the doctor and they're going
to recommend you reduce sodium. Now,
that's not untrue, but there's more to
that story. Harvard researchers tracked
over 10,000 adults across six major
studies. They measured both sodium and
potassium against cardiovascular
outcomes. And here's what they found,
and this is actually very interesting.
For every,000
milligrams of potassium that was given
to a person every single day, there was
a reduction by 18% in the cardiovascular
risk. And for every addition of 1,000
milligrams of sodium, there was an
increase of 18% cardiovascular risk.
Completely symmetrical, equal, but
opposite. But here's the part that
almost never makes it to the doctor's
office. The people with the highest
sodium and the lowest potassium ratio
double the heart attack death risk
compared to people with the lowest
ratio. The problem is the ratio. Okay,
the relative ratio between sodium and
potassium.
You have to look at them together, not
separately. In the US, an average person
consumes 3,400 milligrams, not
potassium, sodium. Okay, sodium. And
only 2500 milligrams of potassium. You
need at least 4,700 millig of potassium.
Rarely does anyone even come close to
that. And you roughly need about 2400
milligrams of sodium, but you can
actually tolerate more if you have more
potassium, but that's in another video.
So, a lot of people ask me, "What
supplements do I recommend?" Now, of
course, I'm not biased of my own
high-quality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg
supplements, you'll find more
information. And if you look in the
past, the Paleolithic ancestors consumed
an estimated 11,000 to 15,000 milligrams
of potassium every single day. Okay?
They had a lot more than 4700.
Our bodies were developed for much
higher amounts of potassium. It was
actually very rare to find enough
sodium. And this probably is why we have
this epidemic of hypertension because
even like when I was in practice, if
someone came in with hypertension, I
would always encourage them to increase
their potassium and man, their blood
pressure would start coming down. How
does it work? Well, there's four
mechanisms with potassium. Number one,
potassium relaxes
blood vessels. Okay? So, if you look at
blood pressure, there's certain control
mechanisms. Potassium is the one that
causes vasoddilation relaxation.
Potassium acts on the smooth muscle of
the artery wall. When the potassium is
lower, we retain this constriction in
the arteries and even the artery walls
become stiffened. So potassium actually
keeps the elasticity in the arteries.
And of course when you have this lack of
elasticity and more contraction, you get
high blood pressure. All right. Number
two, potassium lowers adrenaline. A
person can go into fight or flight mode
without potassium. So potassium is a
super important mineral in supporting
rest and digest. I mean they have beta
blockers. Those are blood pressure drugs
that reduce or block adrenaline. Well,
potassium is a natural beta blocker.
Potassium can support the sympathetic
nervous system that helps it uh calm
down. Potassium protects the inside of
the artery. That's called the
endothelial layer. It increases
something called nitric oxide which
improves vasoddilation and circulation.
And number four, potassium supports
insulin sensitivity. Potassium directly
keeps the insulin receptors sensitive
and protects them from downgrading and
becoming resistant to insulin. So
potassium is really good for a diabetic
and also for all the side effects of a
diabetic. If you have low potassium, you
have a greater chance of developing
insulin resistance and insulin problems
which directly correlate to high blood
pressure. In fact, insulin resistance is
one of the primary drivers of
hypertension. And I talked about this in
other videos. Potassium supports the
cells that make insulin. They help
regulate insulin in the pancreas. And so
potassium is necessary for insulin to
work correctly, but also insulin is
necessary for potassium to work as well.
And when you have insulin resistance, we
actually have a dysfunctional problem
with insulin that actually inhibits
potassium from working. Now, one of the
most common hypertension
classes of drugs is the diuretics. And
one primary side effect of those
medications that help you with
hypertension is a loss of potassium.
Why? Because they cause the body to get
rid of excess fluid. And with that
excess fluid going out, you lose
potassium and other electrolytes. So
here we have a drug that lowers blood
pressure that also gets rid of the thing
that you need to correct blood pressure.
And this is why they also give you a
prescription
additional drugs called potassium
chloride, which can be called a drug,
but it also is a natural thing. You
could actually buy it over the counter.
So, this is an additional thing that has
a code that you can get reimbursement
for because they have to give it to you
because you're creating a deficiency of
potassium and that can create other
problems. My question is what would
happen if you took enough potassium
initially? Would you lower blood
pressure and then you wouldn't need the
diuretic or the potassium prescription?
Now, just as a side note, they also have
another hypertension drug called ACE
inhibitors which retain potassium. ACE
inhibitors are one of the most effective
drugs at handling hypertension. I wonder
if it's really the retention of
potassium. If you go buy a potassium
supplement, okay, it'll come in 99
milligram tablets. Okay, why is that
when the RDAs for potassium are 4700?
Well, it came from a few studies back in
the 60s and 70s that had to do with
taking too much potassium, creating
ulcers in the intestine. And so, it was
called a GI lesion. Okay, using
potassium chloride. So, it's not a law
that you can't take more, but it's just
something that manufacturing companies
have stuck with over the years. So, my
question is, why would you ever get an
ulcer or a lesion from potassium?
Because potassium doesn't cause lesions.
Now, this pill that they gave people was
potassium chloride and it was interic.
In other words, it kind of was
encapsulated to go through the stomach
and end up in the intestines. And then
there's certain theories that oh, the
concentrated amount of potassium in the
small intestine could actually create an
irritation. But when you look at the
studies, they didn't just give people
potassium chloride. What they did in the
study was attached the potassium
chloride to the diuretic medication. And
there's other studies that show that
when you take this diuretic that has
been known to create lesions in the GI
system. So how is anyone going to
determine it's the potassium and not the
medication? Also these studies were done
on people with cardiac problems that
were also taking aspirin and NSAID drugs
at the same time which have been known
to cause ulcers in the GI system. My
viewpoint is potassium got the blame,
but it was never the root cause because
there's never been any independent study
where someone just took potassium. And
we're talking like 99 milligrams, which
is basically a fraction of what we need.
So, this is why when you go to the
store, you'll see the 99 milligram pills
for potassium. It's all based on those
studies back in the 60s. never been
tested after that to really determine if
this was a true thing or not. This is a
28 billion dollar industry, right? So, I
think there's not a lot of motivation to
encourage people to take more potassium
because I talk about this in other
videos, the relationship between
magnesium and hypertension.
And I want to explain that right now
because magnesium is not just for your
muscles. It's not just for reducing
cortisol. Magnesium is to help you make
energy in the mitochondria. So with
blood pressure problems, I really
believe you not only need potassium, you
need magnesium as well. So now that you
understand the mechanism of
hypertension, the obvious question is
what do I eat to get my potassium? And
this is where I want to share some extra
information because all the conventional
answers for what you should be eating to
get more potassium are things that you
should not be eating for a certain
reason. I created an entire video on
this right here. You should check it out
right now.
