Right now, they are trying to ban us
from telling the truth about sugar. What
if just saying sugar is harmful could
actually get you sued? It's not because
it's not true. It's because a powerful
industry does not like criticism. What
I'm going to talk about might sound
completely unbelievable, but there is a
bill right now that they're trying to
pass that if it goes through is going to
be disastrous. Okay? not just about
sugar, about a lot of other things that
are harmful to us. This is not about a
food safety law. This is about a speech
law. It controls who is allowed to
criticize agriculture and who isn't. And
it uses something called defamation as a
weapon. Florida already has a law that
allows farmers to sue someone who
spreads false information about food.
This is sometimes called food liel or
food disparagement. The original idea
was simple. Don't lie about fresh
produce and destroy the farmer's
livelihood. At least that's how it was
sold to the public, but that's not how
it's being used. Certain investigative
journalists uncovered internal documents
from large agriculture and chemical
companies, and in those documents showed
the real goal, which had nothing to do
with protecting farmers, and instead it
had everything to do with what to do
with critics, environmental groups,
journalists, activists, scientists. The
strategy was to make lawsuits so
expensive, so unpredictable that people
would stop talking about it, even if
they were right. The term for this is
called chilling free speech. Here is
where the current bill becomes very
dangerous. The old law only applied to
perishable foods because it limited the
law to things like fruits and vegetables
that spoil quickly. So, it kept it very
narrow. The new bill removes the word
perishable. That one little tiny change
quietly expands the law to all
agricultural products, including sugar.
But it goes further. The bill also adds
a new phrase, any agricultural practice
used in production. That means criticism
of pesticides,
insecticides, fungicides, fertilizer,
chemical runoff, water contamination,
all now can be treated as disparagement.
I mean, everyone knows that excessive
sugar is bad for the body, right?
Insulin resistance, fatty liver, chronic
inflammation, type 2 diabetes. This is
not just opinion. This is an established
fact. But if this bill goes through and
someone speaks out about sugar or
pesticides or whatever on how it can
affect your health or how it's even
produced, even if it's truthful, a
powerful company could sue you. And so
now that puts an activist or an
influencer who's talking about sugar in
a situation where now they have to pay
for legal costs. But not only that, if
they lose the case, now that individual
has to then pay the other attorney's
fees. Now, this bill is coming out of
Florida, okay? But even if you don't
live in Florida, this matters because
Florida crops are sold nationwide. Legal
experts warn that this could open the
door to lawsuits that go way beyond the
state. And this sets a very dangerous
precedent. Florida already has
defamation laws and we absolutely do not
need more special legal protection for
powerful industries like the sugar
industry, like the pesticide industry.
And then what happens is you can't
debate these things because the threat
of a lawsuit or a threat of some type of
punishment. So when I first saw this
bill, I was like, what the heck are they
doing now? If you live in Florida, or
even if you don't live in Florida, you
have to help fight this because if this
bill goes through, think about what the
ultrarocessed food companies can get
away with. The chemical companies are
going to be able to get away with.
They're protected against anyone
criticizing them. Now, this bill on the
outside has the appearance that it's
just there to help support the farmers,
but if you read between the lines, the
law is designed to silence the critics.
And once free speech to silence, public
health is next. I mean, this is a pretty
smart thing that these big companies are
doing. If they can get this passed, they
get so much protection against
criticism. So, when I was looking at
this, I'm like, what is this playbook
called? Well, it's actually called
weaponized defamation law, or another
name for it is using lawsuits to silence
criticism. So I think a lot of
influencers,
activists,
scientists would literally be very quiet
because the amount of money that you
would be sued for would literally drain
your resources. So if you have the same
viewpoint I have, ultrarocessed food is
responsible for 80% of chronic disease.
I highly recommend you click the link
down below where you can actually sign
up on a petition. If you live in
Florida, you can call your local
representative and complain. But we need
to make a lot of noise right now because
if this bill goes through, it's going to
be devastating for our children, for
their grandkids, and for us as well. So,
please click the link down below and
let's all work together to defeat this
