Today we're going to talk about the
biggest lie about weight loss, dieting,
and trying to lose your belly fat. This
lie has been going around for decades.
You may have accepted this mainstream
lie because it's taught in all the
different universities and continue to
use it over and over again. What is this
lie? It's this. Weight loss is just a
matter of eating fewer calories than
you're burning. There is no one bad
food. Everything in moderation. Have you
ever heard that? A lot of this has been
perpetuated by the junk food industry.
And one of the big problems with eating
something in moderation is all it takes
is a little bit of the wrong foods to
keep you wanting more. Today, I'm going
to completely dissect or actually
demolish this theory that a calorie is a
calorie. Let's first dissect this on the
area of hormones. There's a hormone
called insulin. And insulin has a very
specific job. It tells the calorie where
to go. If your insulin is high, the
carbohydrates that you eat will be
stored. If insulin is low, those
calories will be burned. What triggers
insulin? It's carbohydrates. If someone
tells you that there's no difference
between 100 calories of this meat, okay,
versus 100 calories of this soda in
relationship to your hormones, they
really are lying to you. Because if we
compare these two different types of
calories, insulin is going to be
triggered with this much much more than
this. And I remembered in practice
working with lots of people and they
would come in and say, you know, I'm not
losing weight, Dr. Burke. And then I
would do a food log and I would ask
them, "What did you just eat?" And they
said, "Well, I just had a little bit of
carbs." Come to find out was a glass of
wine, a little bread. But they said it
wasn't that much. What they didn't know,
which I eventually told them, is that
all it takes is a little bit of
carbohydrate to raise that insulin to
then prevent the burning of fat. That
fat loss is shut off for a period of
time. The other hormone that's related
to this is cortisol. That's a stress
hormone. Cortisol will indirectly raise
your insulin. It's coming from your own
body. It's coming from the liver. Not to
mention the cortisol prevents you
sleeping. And by the way, most of the
fat burning that your body does is
during the deep sleep. The other factor
I want to mention is fiber. Fiber is
another variable that can help uh reduce
the spike of blood sugars. For example,
if you ate an orange versus orange
juice, you get a big spike with orange
juice, but not necessarily the orange
because of the fiber. Another reason why
you can't say that all calories are
treated the same regardless of source.
Like even with this right here, this is
industrial starch, highly refined. It's
classified as a complex carbohydrate.
When you consume it, it really jacks up
your blood sugar extremely high versus
more of a whole food starch that's not
highly processed. Like maybe a potato
that's steamed is going to act very
differently than industrial starches.
The more processed it is, the more
you're going to absorb the calories. And
I also want to talk about this is cod
liver. And this is a very high source of
omega-3 fats, okay? Super healthy. It
supports the brain. It does wonders for
your body. Now, if we compare another
fat, okay, right here, Crisco, if we
took the same amount of calories for
this and this, they have completely
opposite effects. The other thing I want
to talk about is appetite, right? If you
are eating calories that don't satisfy
you, you're not going to be able to
continue that diet. It's going to be too
unsustainable. Why? Because you're
hungry all the time and you're craving
for sweets. The more nutrientdense a
food is, the more satisfied you're going
to be. So again, the source of the
calories matter. There's very little
nutrients in this. There's a lot of
nutrients in this right here. The
amazing thing about cutting your carbs
down and lowering insulin and burning
your own fat, your cravings go away. It
makes it very easy to go long periods of
time without eating. There are people
right now watching this and objecting to
some of the things I'm saying. And I
want to address that right now because
there are people that are metabolically
flexible. They might be younger. They
might be more of an athlete. They might
exercise more. Well, guess what? Those
people can tolerate more carbohydrates
than other people. What I'm talking
about is the person that has difficulty
losing weight. They struggled and this
entire calories in equals calories out
is not working for them. Then we have
the topic of different types of sugar.
You have glucose, you have fructose, and
I just want to touch on that for a
second because when you consume glucose,
all of your cells can metabolize that.
When you consume fructose, only the
liver can deal with that type of sugar.
If you're doing more high fructose corn
syrup, which is definitely not natural,
we're overloading the liver, and that is
definitely a different source of
calories versus something like honey,
which means that the high fructose corn
syrup is going to create a lot more
inflammation because it doesn't have the
normal natural antioxidants and the
other things as nature has provided. In
nature, if something has sugar in it,
it's also going to have protective
factors in it as well. And those would
be like the antioxidants in fruit in
certain vegetables that can protect you
from the sugar. In summary, if you're
trying to lose weight, especially
midsection weight, and you're struggling
and someone is really pushing this,
focus on your calories in, calories out
theory, you might want to take a step
back and try something else, like going
on the healthy version of the low carb
ketogenic diet with intermittent
fasting. And because it's low carb, it's
going to be easy to go from one meal to
the next. That way, you're not snacking
through the day. And if you're new to my
channel and you want a stepbystep
procedure of exactly how to implement
this in your life, you should watch this
video right here. Yeah, go ahead and
click it now. This one. Right there.
