Today we're going to talk about an
alternative protocol for erectile
dysfunction. Now, I just need to get
something out of the way. When you look
up erectile dysfunction, Wikipedia, this
is what it says. It says, "The Food and
Drug Administration does not recommend
alternative therapies to treat sexual
dysfunction. Many products are
advertised as herbal Viagra or natural
sexual enhancement products, but no
clinical trials or scientific studies
support the effectiveness of these
products for the treatment of ED. So,
I'm going to tell you right now that is
absolutely a lie. If you look up
randomized control studies, human
studies on alternatives to Viagra, you
will find quite a few. In fact, I'm
going to put a handful down in the
description so you can check them out.
These are natural alternatives that show
significant improvement for erectile
dysfunction. There is a lot of research.
I think that statement is really
protecting the drug companies because
they like to sell Viagra. And if you
have erectile dysfunction, you're going
to be very happy because I'm going to
show you quite a few things to improve
that situation. First question is, what
is erectile dysfunction and is it the
same as lowered testosterone?
No. Testosterone controls more libido.
Your muscles, especially as you age. If
you have enough testosterone, your
overall mood will be better. If you have
low testosterone, you'll be more
depressed or have more anxiety. But you
can have normal testosterone and still
have erectile dysfunction. Today, we're
going to show you what to do for this
condition right here. Erectile
dysfunction is one of the earliest signs
of vascular disease. That's right. If we
take a look at your arteries, the inside
of the arteries are lined with this
single cell layer called the endothelial
layer. And so what erectile dysfunction
is, it's a problem with the vascular
system. That layer of cells is not
working correctly. There's certain
things in your body that signal the
relaxation of your arteries to open up
vasoddilate and allow blood flow. And
I'm talking about blood flow into your
private parts. That molecule is called
nitric oxide. In animal studies, when
they completely blocked nitric oxide,
there was a complete failure with
erections. Nitric oxide can lower or
inhibit testosterone. And there is some
truth to that. But there's also some
truth that nitric oxide can increase
testosterone. So, how can you have these
two conflicting ideas? When you have
super high levels of nitric oxide, that
can inhibit testosterone. When you have
mild or normal levels of nitric oxide,
then you will trigger the increase of
testosterone. And so with all the
natural remedies and lifestyle actions
I'm going to talk about, you're not
going to get a massive high level
stimulation of nitric oxide. But you do
get a massive level of nitric oxide when
you're taking Viagra or when you get
chronic inflammation. The nitric oxide
comes in there and acts as a substitute
for oxygen. So in other words, you don't
have to worry about nitric oxide
inhibiting your testosterone. Check this
out. When you're 20, you have a full
amount of nitric oxide, right? You have
a lot of nitric oxide. It's working
fine. You can get erections. You have no
problem. And then when you get into your
30s, that nitric oxide starts to
decrease a little bit. So now you're at
85%. In your 40s, you go down to 70%. At
50, you're at 55%. At 60, now you're
down to 40%. And then at 70, you're down
to 25%.
Now that is a problem. We no longer have
the ability to relax the vascular system
to allow blood flow. And so with
erectile dysfunction, the person either
cannot get an erection or they can't
maintain an erection because they don't
have this nitric oxide. So then what
people do is they take something called
Viagra. But the question is, does Viagra
increase nitric oxide? No, it actually
doesn't. It gets rid of something else
that causes this degradation or erasing
of nitric oxide. So then you can
maintain more nitric oxide in your
system for a little bit. Okay. The
problem with Viagra is it does come with
some minor complications. headaches,
flushing, low blood pressure. But
there's some more serious ones like a
heart attack, a stroke, permanent
hearing loss. Another side effect is
when you're looking at things,
everything looks blue, and prolonged
erections that can lead to damage in
your penis. Other than that, you're
perfectly fine. This is why I'm doing
this video, to give people alternatives,
things that are safer, things that
potentially can help you that don't give
you a bigger problem than you're trying
to solve. And the problem is when you
get older, you're losing your muscle
mass because of this testosterone. And
testosterone also helps decrease
inflammation. It helps uh your insulin
work better, helps your blood sugars.
It's even involved with protecting you
against bone loss. But the big thing
that people think about with
testosterone is libido, interest in sex.
What we're dealing with as we age, when
we lose this nitric oxide, we're
actually losing oxygen, too. And so
eventually what happens is we get more
what's called hypoxia, which is a lack
of oxygen. And with inflammation, you
also have a lack of oxygen. And that
creates a lot of damage because now
we're getting fibrosis. We get scar
tissue. And then if you get scar tissue
in your penis and you get plaquing, then
you definitely have circulatory problems
just like in your arteries, right? You
don't get blood flow. And so that
creates a big problem. The primary thing
that really starts this whole problem is
insulin resistance. And that has to do
with the consumption of a lot of extra
sugar and refined carbohydrates
early in your life. And it starts to
create a lot of inflammation in the
arteries. So, if insulin increases
nitric oxide and when you eat a lot of
carbohydrates, you're increasing
insulin. Shouldn't that work to your
advantage? Well, no. Because you develop
insulin resistance. As soon as you start
increasing insulin more and more and on
a regular chronic basis, your body's
like, "This is too much. We have to
block this. We have to create
resistance." So, now you develop insulin
resistance and now insulin does not
work. So in reality, you become insulin
deficient when you have insulin
resistance. And also the fuel glucose
that's supposed to be pulling with
insulin doesn't really go in. So we we
literally start to starve our our
muscles and our body. And so it doesn't
get the fuel it needs. And so the
elephant in the room is that we need to
focus on fixing this insulin resistance
as fast as we can. I'm going to show you
how to do that. Another common cause for
erectile dysfunction is other
medications especially the SSRIs for
like anti-depressant anti-anxiety
medication. Wow, do they create a lot of
problems with erectile dysfunction and
many other related issues. Also beta
blockers that's for blood pressure,
diuretics,
uh five alpha reductase inhibitors.
These drugs are mainly for prostate
enlargement or hair loss, but they have
a side effect of creating erectile
dysfunction. So now let's dive into the
protocol. How do we increase nitric
oxide because that's immediately going
to increase more blood flow and help
erections. Apparently beets are at the
top of the list to increase nitric oxide
because they're loaded with nitrates.
And I'm going to recommend them because
they're a natural source. You can
actually eat beets. You can also have
beet juice powder because it's super
concentrated. Out of all the things you
can do to increase nitric oxide, beets
are at the top of the list at 200%.
But I lied. There's something even
higher. That's arugula. That's more than
200%. However, arugula is usually not
eaten in the quantity as you could
consume with beets, especially if it's
like in a beet powder, a juice powder.
So technically arugula should be up
here, but because it's easier to consume
more beet juice than arugula salad, I
put beets at the top of the list. One
thing you should think about is just
doing a arugula beet salad on a regular
basis. Okay? And then number three is
exercise. Exercise is a very potent way
to increase nitric oxide. Now think
about this too. When you're increasing
nitric oxide, you're also improving
insulin resistance as well. And this is
why even after a single workout, you see
great improvements in insulin
sensitivity because of the spike in
nitric oxide. 80 to 100% increase in
nitric oxide after an exercise. Now,
what type of exercise would be best to
increase nitric oxide and testosterone?
It would be either a highintensity
interval training or the resistance
training, not running a marathon because
with marathons you're going to increase
more cortisol, but a long walk would
help you, but really it's the intensity
of exercise. Now, I want to add
something else. This is like a really
amazing uh additional thing you can do
to your exercise to take it to the next
level. Okay, I don't know if you've ever
heard of intermittent hypoxia training.
Hypoxia meaning low oxygen. It involves
wearing a mask to restrict your air,
simulating
high altitude training because when
you're climbing a mountain, there's
lower amounts of oxygen at that level.
And so if you work out with this mask
and you're restricting just, you know,
it could be 10 to 15 to 20 seconds of
air bringing it down to a certain degree
and then you're you're taking it off and
you're exercising back and forth.
There's a whole technique to this.
You're going to stimulate more capillary
growth to the entire body because think
about what we're dealing with. We're
dealing with a circulatory problem.
we're dealing with a lack of blood flow
in certain parts of your body. And so
anything to improve overall systemic
blood flow would be really really
important not just for your private
parts but for your heart as well. So I
would recommend looking into this right
here in intermittent hypoxia training it
can just add that extra uh benefit uh
for many different things. There's also
something called L citrine. Now, without
giving you a lot of complexities,
there's a precursor thing that turns
into nitric oxide, and that's called
arginine. And people take it to increase
their nitric oxide. But the problem is
it goes through your gut and your liver,
and it tends to break down relatively
quickly. But if you take lcitrilline,
it doesn't go through the normal
pathway. it goes right to your kidneys
and you increase more larginine
more than taking Larginine. So you're
actually going to make more nitric oxide
and it's going to stay in the body
longer if you take this supplement right
here. And when you take it, you maintain
higher levels of nitric oxide for three
or four or five hours. So what you'd
want to do is take it in the morning and
take it in the PM, okay? in the evening
to really boost that nitric oxide. All
the things I'm suggesting are not going
to be as potent as Viagra, but that's
okay because when you have something
that potent, it comes with a package. It
comes with side effects. You're not
going to see the same side effects with
these natural things as you would a
drug. Even if you're 50 years old and
your nitric oxide is at 55% and then you
take these things right here and you
boost it, it could actually bring it up
to 100%. and resolve the problem. Next
one is pomegranate. You can increase it
by 30%.
You know, you might uh at dinner just
include as your dessert a pomegranate.
You can also do pomegranate supplements
or powder. And then we get dark
chocolate 85%. Now, they have also uh
100% cacao in a powder. You can add that
to your coffee in the morning. I do
that. I like it because the flavonoids
in this concentrated dark chocolate will
increase nitric oxide by 25%. Now when I
talked about Viagra, I talked about uh
the mechanism of how it works. It
prevents something from breaking down.
So I looked up alternatives to Viagra
which are basically called PDE5
inhibitors and I found a series of them
that will not only mimic the mechanism
but will also increase nitric oxide
because Viagra does not increase nitric
oxide but these do. The first one that
is most researched is called horny goat
weed. And I will put a link down below
of some research, human research to show
that this is of a significant effect of
increasing nitric oxide and also
improving erectile dysfunction. One of
the problems with horny goat weed is
it's not very bioavailable. So when
you're taking it, your body doesn't
absorb as much as maybe you would like
it to absorb. How do we increase the
bioavailability?
It's fat soluble. So you want to consume
it with fat or your meal. Okay. You can
also add that black pepper to increase
the absorption as well. The next one is
panax ginsing. This will increase nitric
oxide and also decrease the loss of
nitric oxide. When they did the studies
comparing to a placebo, this showed
significant improvements. The next one I
want to talk about is saffron. Saffron
does trigger a mild increase in nitric
oxide, but it does some other things as
well. It works on the central nervous
system, especially on your mood and your
neurotransmitters.
So, if you are slightly depressed or
have anxiety, that's probably the one
that you might want to focus on. And
then we get to ashwagandha. This is an
adaptogen. I normally recommend this for
the adrenals because it lowers cortisol
and it increases testosterone, but it
also increases nitric oxide. So, as I go
through these, you want to kind of just
uh see which one matches your condition.
Do you have more stress? Do you have
more depression or not? And then you can
take whatever you need accordingly. And
ashwagandha works really good if
someone's going through stress because
it increases the tolerance to stress. If
you have known arterial problems, let's
say you have diabetes or you have a
history of heart problems and um you've
had it for a long time, you may have
fibrosis and plaquing, they can do
certain uh tests, I think ultrasound
test and other tests to actually
visualize plaquing in your penis. If you
have that, there is something else that
you might want to consider. It's called
shockwave therapy. It creates this
vibration. you actually apply it to your
penis and it actually breaks up scar
tissue. So there's some really
interesting research on that. But again,
you only want to take this if you have
the problem that this deals with. So if
you don't have fibrosis and you don't
have this endothelial issue, then it's
not going to really work, but it can
stimulate more growth of capillaries and
things like that. All right, number one,
fix insulin resistance. You need to go
on a low carb diet. Cut out the sugars,
cut out the starches. Now, what's
interesting about insulin resistance is
that that develops for 15 to 20 years
before you even become a pre-diabetic.
So, a lot of people consume a lot of
sugar. You can't really depend on this
test called A1C. That's a measurement of
3 months of blood sugar. If that insulin
is pulling the sugar out as fast as
you're eating it, especially in the
earlier stages of insulin resistance, it
might show normal. One of the best tests
to do is a fasting insulin test. Okay?
That'll really show you the picture of
what's going on well before you get
pre-diabetes. So, you want your fasting
insulin to be below like seven or even
below five. Mine is a two. I like to
keep it really low. I don't have a lot
of sugar in my diet. Number two,
arousal. To trigger erections, there are
various things that involve your eyes
looking at something, your skin, touch,
which by the way is the most powerful
stimulus, your mind, and even a scent.
When you get aroused, you have these
triggers that trigger the what's called
the parasympathetic nervous system. But
it's the parasympathetic that triggers
this nitric oxide. Okay? So, in other
words, if you're trying to get an
erection and you are under stress, it's
just going to shut things down. There's
a couple little things that you might
want to do to quickly put your body into
the parasympathetic mode. Nasal
breathing. Breathe out of your nose
slowly. It's going to increase
more CO2, which is going to increase
more oxygen, and it's going to pull you
out of the sympathetic and push you into
the parasympathetic nasal breathing.
Okay? And making sure your breathing is
very even and relaxed. It's going to
pull you out of the sympathetic nervous
system and it's going to help you
increase nitric oxide. We've already
talked about exercise, okay? We talked
about intermittent hypoxia training.
There's co-actors that you want to make
sure that are in your diet. Uh zinc, not
just for increasing testosterone, but
also to help with insulin resistance, to
help with erectile dysfunction, probably
one of the most important minerals. The
B vitamins are co-actors very, very
important to actually beef up or
increase nitric oxide. Then we have
vitamin D which is very important in
increasing nitric oxide probably more
than any other nutrient. Number six is
not sleeping. When you don't sleep,
you're creating stress and you don't let
your body build up the reserve of nitric
oxide. For years, I pushed myself to try
to get more things done. And I would
wake up at 4:00 in the morning. It was
the worst thing I could have done,
especially for my vascular system and my
overall health and nitric oxide. So
sleep is super important. In fact, you
can do all these things right here. And
if your sleep is not good, if you're not
sleeping at least seven to eight hours,
then none of these are going to work.
Sleeping in a cooler temperature is
going to be very very important,
especially at night because that cooler
temperature will push you into the
deeper sleep.
uh pink noise is probably one of the
best things to induce a deep sleep more
than white noise. And then number seven,
if you're consuming alcohol, that can
nullify your benefits, okay? With
testosterone and also erections. Seed
oils go into the membranes into your
blood vessels and they make things very
inflamed. So, you want to get off the
seed oils as well and increase the
omega-3 fatty acids from fish oils. very
important. Cod liver oil is one of the
best because it gives you vitamin D and
vitamin A with the omega-3s. So, this is
really important, but you might not
notice the results right away when you
take omega-3. It's more of a long-term
game to improve uh and replace all the
seed oils. And of course, if you're
smoking, all that smoke goes into your
lungs, ends up in your arteries, and
really shutting down your nitric oxide.
cold therapy going to a cold immersion
or a cold shower help push the blood out
of that area and create a vasoc
constriction and uh then there'll be a
compensation a vasoddilation right after
that to increase circulation uh in your
private parts and this is another
therapy that's been tested in research
and there's some interesting data behind
that now I wanted to add something to
this video very important what I did is
I went through all the credible
randomized control studies looking for
what has the greatest impact on
improving erectile dysfunction but
mainly for lifestyle changes, natural
things,
nutrition, etc. And some of these
interventions I have not talked about,
so I'm going to add them right now.
There's eight of them. Starting with
number one, intensive lifestyle
activities combining exercise, weight
loss, and a healthy diet. Number two,
Keele pelvic exercises. Apparently, that
creates a lot of blood flow in the
pelvic area and it helps to trap some of
the blood in the venus system. And it's
also good for urination dribbling. 40%
regained normal erections, 34.5%
improved, and 25.5% had no change. 40%
regain normal function. That's huge with
just an exercise. It doesn't cost
anything. Number three, regular aerobic
exercise. That means consistent exercise
over a period of time. Number four,
largenine plus picnogginal together.
Number five, panics red ginsing. And
number six is niacin. That's vitamin B3.
Number seven, treating sleep apnea. And
number eight, acupuncture. But before
you go, this right here, sleep, is
super, super important. And I just want
to make sure that you're sleeping at
least eight hours every single night.
And you know exactly how to do that. And
for that information, I put this video
up right here. Watch it right now so you
have that information, too.
