Parmyo Reano versus the US imitation
Parmesan cheese. The names are very
similar, but are they really the same?
There is something in this cheese that
is not only not in this cheese, but it's
not in any other cheese that I know
about. I lived on this one right here. I
don't even know about this one. I put
this on my spaghetti sauce until I went
to a part of Italy called Parma where
they make this cheese and saw firsthand
how they made it. But I was more
interested in the cows. went to the barn
where they had these cows. Not only do
all the cows consume grass, but the type
of grass that they fed these cows is
extremely different than what they feed
other cows. To make this authentic
cheese, they have to go through very
strict standards. Whereas in America,
you don't have these standards. There's
a lot of types of cheese that are
mimicking or faking this cheese. It's a
$2 billion industry. Grass-fed cows are
also loaded with microbes that come from
the soil. So, a cow eats the grass. It
goes into several stomachs. And many
people don't realize that the cow itself
cannot digest that grass, that fiber. It
needs help from microbes inside the cow.
When a cow eats grass, they're basically
feeding their microbes. And then the
byproducts that the microbes give off
after eating the grass or the fiber that
is fed to the cows as nutrition. The
bacteria itself that's doing all the
work is loaded with protein. And so the
cow gets very little direct nutrition.
It gets a lot of the nutrition via the
microbes. And so it's a combination of
the type of microbes that are involved
in the fermentation process as well as
the production going from milk to cheese
that also involves microbes. This parmyo
reano is made from three ingredients.
This very specialized standard cow's
milk. Number two, salt. And number
three, an enzyme that allows the milk to
turn into cheese. Now, if we do a little
comparison to the American Parmesan
cheese, we get a pasteurized part skim
milk with a cheese culture salt enzymes.
And of course, they're also adding
potassium sorbate to protect the flavor.
This one here is raw. There is no
requirements on aging with this one.
This one has to be aged at least 12
months. But when I went to Parma, I
noticed that they have different
versions of this cheese. that were aged
14 months, 24 months, and some even
longer. And each one had its own unique
taste. So, it's fascinating the
combination of aging a cheese while it's
fermenting with help from the microbes
and the different flavors that come
about from this fermentation process.
It's just fascinating. And if there's
one thing I like is high quality cheese.
In fact, I'm addicted to it. And I use
this on my salad on a daily basis. The
other thing that is involved with this
when you age a cheese is your microbes
are eating up all the milk, sugar,
lactose. So, you're getting something
with virtually no lactose. So, it's very
keto friendly. It's also high in
something called glutamate, which is
definitely different than the synthetic
monosodium glutamate. This is a natural
glutamate, so it has incredible flavor.
It's good for your gut. The amount of
bioavailable calcium and phosphorus in
this for your bones is off the charts.
What's also unique about this cheese is
one of the byproducts helps you build up
glutathione, the master antioxidant for
your liver. This also has something in
it to help reduce blood pressure.
There's butyric acid in here, which is
really good for your brain as well. Out
of all the amazing benefits that this
cheese can give you health-wise, there's
something way bigger. It just so happens
that this cheese has the highest amount
of vitamin K2 of any other cheeses out
there. Vitamin K2 redirects calcium from
your arteries, from your joints, and it
pushes it into your teeth and your
bones. So, the version of vitamin K2
that this has is MK7. It's the most
bioavailable. It's going to last a long
time in your body. And so, this cheese
actually is a natural vitamin K2 machine
on steroids. There's a lot of other
benefits of vitamin K2 I'm not going to
get into in this video. benefits for
your mitochondria, benefits to produce
energy. All you need to know when you're
comparing these two, the parmyo rego,
you are getting way more benefits than
just consuming a cheese that tastes
good. What I do appreciate is the amount
of work and quality that goes into
making a product like this, as well as
the additional health benefits. Now, I
have a question for you. Would you
actually spend the extra money on
something like this versus this? Please
comment down below and let me
