Drink one cup of this before bed to have
a smaller waist. Now, if you're noticing
that your midsection is not getting
smaller despite going on a low carb diet
or exercising or doing whatever, okay,
this video is for you. A lot of people
are focusing on the food aspect to lose
weight, right? They're on a diet, they
start lowering calories or carbs, and
then sometimes it doesn't work. So, I'm
going to share something with you that's
very interesting. You have seven fat
burning hormones and they're triggered
by all these different things, exercise,
diet, etc. But there are two other
hormones that are countering it. These
two other hormones are dominant. And in
the presence of these two other
hormones, all of these fat burning
hormones will not work because these two
hormones are way more significant and
they have way more influence over these
hormones. The first one is called
cortisol. People think cortisol is just
a stress hormone, right? Cortisol is
also a fattorring hormone,
specifically at night. That's right.
When you go to sleep at night, normally
you go through four waves of sleep. It's
called a circadian wave. And so, you
start going to sleep and you have these
superficial waves and then the deep
delta wave. This is where most people
burn the fat in the deeper sleep. And by
the way, the lowest circadian wave of
cortisol, the stress hormone, is at 2
a.m. in the middle of the night. So that
gives the body the opportunity to
actually burn all this fat, repair, and
heal. If cortisol is too high at night,
regardless of how many fat burning
hormones that you're triggering, these
will not work. In other words, cortisol
cancels out the effect of all the good
things that you're doing to help you
lose weight, especially in your
midsection. Today, I'm going to show you
a very simple thing you can do. It's a
drink before bed. So that way, when
you're stressed during the day, you
don't have to go into sleep with high
cortisol. It can go lower and you can
actually tap into more fat and wake up
with a much smaller stomach since most
of the fat burning occurs when you're
sleeping. if you're sleeping. But just
to clarify, when you're exercising, when
you're dieting, you're not actually
burning fat at that point. You're
sending signals hormonally into the body
that create this effect about 24 to 48
hours later if you're sleeping and if
you're getting the deep delta wave
sleep. Real quick story. I had this gal
that was eating perfectly. She was at
the gym over the course of a year. She
lifted over 3 million pounds. Okay,
guess how much weight she lost over the
course of a year? It's only one pound.
Why? Because her cortisol was too high
and it was preventing her from sleeping
and getting the benefit of all that
exercise and good work being on the
right eating plan. So, it's not just
about your diet. It's not just about
exercising more. It's about really
understanding these counter hormones
that are blocking your progress. And the
other hormone, you probably already know
this, insulin. Okay, insulin is a
fattorring
hormone. In the presence of insulin,
these fat burning hormones will not
work. So both of these hormones kind of
work together to kind of sabotage you if
they're too high. And the one thing
about cortisol is cortisol when it goes
up, it actually will then mobilize
sugar. It turns protein in sugar.
Sometimes your own muscles like your
legs or your buttock muscle and it turns
that into sugar as fuel because it's a
survival mechanism and then that will
actually increase this. So one will feed
the other. And one of the challenges
with having high cortisol and not
lowering it before you go to sleep is if
you're not sleeping well, you are going
to crave the wrong foods the next day.
you're going to wake up with higher
levels of cortisol. So, you're going to
be more stressed out if you're not
sleeping. Now, this next thing I want to
share with you is super important. So,
if you checked out, just check back in
right now because so many people will
tell you that you just need to have more
willpower. You just need to have more
discipline, right? Well, willpower and
discipline don't work when you're in
stress mode. I mean, you know this with
your friends and family, with yourself.
As soon as people go through stress, the
willpower, the discipline goes out the
window. So, it's so important to keep
this stress cortisol thing as low as
possible if you're trying to reduce your
midsection weight. And with that comes
good sleep. Now, we're going to show you
the plan of what to do in what that
drink is with the goal of keeping
cortisol as low as possible before you
go to bed. Because cortisol is the
hormone that sabotages you with your
sleep and also your ability to burn fat,
we want you to do all the right things
and not have any countering that. Okay,
so let's go to the plan right now. Okay,
here is the exact plan. 60 minutes
before you go to bed, you want to
consume lemon balm tea. Lemon balm tea
is quite amazing in doing several
things. It actually has a phytonutrient
called rosemarinic acid which has the
ability to increase something called
GABA. GABA is something in your brain
that lowers the fight orflight mechanism
called the sympathetic nervous system.
Has effects of being anti-anxiety.
And so you're going to feel a lot calmer
when I drink it. It's like I just like I
can breathe. I can finally calm down.
And then you can drift off into a nice
sleep. If you also want to take it to
the next level in compound and make this
even more powerful, take one scoop of
magnesium glycinate powder and add it to
this tea. Why? Because most people are
deficient in magnesium to the point
where they'll wake up with muscle cramps
or trolley horses or have tight muscles
or just can't sleep because they're low
in magnesium. Magnesium calms you down.
Magnesium can lower cortisol directly.
Increase GABA like I already mentioned
what that does. And also, magnesium
glycinate increases insulin sensitivity
because we also might have an insulin
problem going on from the cortisol or
some other reason. So, at the very
minimum, do lemon balm tea. If you want
to compound it, make it a little
stronger, add a scoop of magnesium
glycinate 60 minutes before you go to
bed. That's going to lower cortisol and
allow you to not just sleep deeper, but
have a better quality of sleep and sleep
longer. 7 and 12 to eight hours or more
to create this effect. And just as a
side note with that lady that lifted 3
million pounds at the gym and wasn't
sleeping, once we fixed her sleep, she
was finally able to lose weight. I
actually had her cut back on her
exercise because she was overtraining.
You know, I had to really convince her
and re-educate her. It's like not just
about more exercise and just better
eating. You have to look at the whole
picture. Number two, no snacking,
especially at night. Not only is this
going to ruin your sleep and cause you
to get up and urinate through the night
more, but every time you eat anything,
you increase insulin. So, we don't want
to increase insulin. You want to do
intermittent fasting. Very, very
important. and no other liquids 90
minutes before bed except this one drink
right here because that's going to
increase urination to the night. It's
going to mess up your sleep. Try to
frontload your liquid in the first part
of the day. Number three is a given.
Lower carbohydrates. Why? Because we
want to decrease insulin. Okay, both of
these hormones, cortisol and insulin.
Number four, daily walks in the sun.
That's going to help you drain the
stress out. The sun's going to give you
a lot of benefit with serotonin. It's
going to lower stress. It's going to
give you vitamin D. It's going to
increase infrared, which is going to
help you sleep at night because it's
going to increase melatonin. There's so
many benefits of number four right here.
I do number four even in the winter
every single day because it's so so
important. And number five, write down
all your problems and incomplete
projects on some paper or notebook
before you go to bed because the last
thing you want to do is go to bed
solving all these problems at night.
Again, this relates to cortisol, right?
As soon as you start solving problems,
which most people do all day long, you
don't want to bring that to bed, right?
You want to turn it off. And sometimes
you have to get it out of your head on a
piece of paper. And if you try this and
you're still thinking about problems,
then you need to get that notebook out
and write more until it's all out of
your head so you can turn it off and
then sleep through the night. Sometimes
you might need to add some vitamin B1,
natural B1, to help you also with this.
But typically, if you're not having a
lot of carbs, the need for B1 will be a
lot less. All right. Now that you have
the plan to help you wake up in the
morning with a smaller waist, I want to
give you my routine on a one-page
download. It's my daily routine. Spent a
long time figuring it out and refining
it. Print it out. Put it on your
refrigerator. Follow it. It will help
you. Then after that, I want to show you
some other things you can do to
indirectly shut off more cortisol and
stress in your life. And for that
information, watch this video right
here.
