The next three most dangerous
carbohydrates in the world. A few months
ago, I made a video on the most
dangerous carbohydrate in the world.
Millions of people watched it and I read
through the comments and people wanted
to know more about other carbs that were
also dangerous. Today, I'm going to talk
about three of the carbs. And the
problem with two of these is that
they're marketed as so-called healthy
foods. And so, a lot of people are
consuming a lot of them without
realizing how damaging they are. Number
one, agave nectar. And you usually see
organic agave nectar right next to the
organic honey section. It is definitely
as far away from a health food as you
could possibly imagine. Even though it's
low on the glycemic index, it is mostly
fructose, 80 to 90% fructose. You'll
find it in different smoothie bars,
every health food store. Fructose is a
type of sugar that's very different than
glucose. Glucose can be metabolized by
all of your cells, but fructose cannot.
Your liver is the only organ that can
deal with this fructose. So, when you're
consuming a lot of agave nectar, you are
literally targeting your liver with a
massive problem because your liver
treats fructose very similar to alcohol.
Whereas with glucose, all of your cells
can deal with it. But when you consume
something high in fructose, boy, you are
just really stressing out your liver big
time. Even if you think about high
fructose corn syrup, that's only 55%
fructose, agave nectar is between 80 to
90%. So when researchers compared
sweeteners in rats, the agave nectar
group had the highest triglycerides
because in those rats, the fructose was
converted to triglycerides, higher than
any other sweetener tested. And I'm
really surprised that agave nectar gets
away with this low glycemic index claim
because it is so misleading. It's not
true. It indirectly messes with your
blood sugar because it causes insulin
resistance actually way more than actual
sugar does. So it does it through the
back door. It destroys the liver. It
creates insulin resistance. It creates a
fatty liver. It also turns into uric
acid. If you have gout and you consume
this, you're going to have a major flare
up of gout. So, too much fructose turns
into too much uric acid and then now
you're at risk for gout and it messes
with your arteries. And the Glycemic
Research Institute after 5 years of
human clinical trials on agave announced
that they were halting future trials and
they legally banned agave from any use
in a food or beverage product that they
certified. five years of clinical trials
and humans completely shut down. And of
course, the American Diabetes
Association, you would think they would
be speaking out against it, but no.
Probably because they're funded by the
junk food industry and big pharma. So,
is agave just like honey? No, it's not.
It's highly processed and the end
product has actually more calories than
table sugar. So, a lot of people ask me,
"What supplements do I recommend?" Now,
of course, I'm not biased of my own
high-quality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg
supplements, you'll find more
information. Number two, you probably
think I'm going to say soda, but no, I'm
going to say juice. You know that
freshlysqueezed orange juice? On the
bottle, it says no added sugar. First of
all, juice is pasteurized. It's heated.
So the vitamin C in the juice is usually
added as synthetic ascorbic acid made
from cornstarch and sulfuric acid. And
yeah, they might not add sugar to it,
but there is a tremendous amount of
fructose sugar in juice. If you compare
one liter of juice, you have about 66 g
of fructose. If we compare a soda, we
have only 62.5
g of fructose. Now, I know you're
probably thinking like, why would juice
be worse than soda? Well, couple
reasons. Number one, people tend to
slowly consume soda over 20 to 30
minutes, but they don't slowly consume
juice. They guzzle it down fast and it's
going to massively spike your blood
sugars, but also that fructose is going
right to the liver and it's going to
start to create damage on the liver. So,
juice is a concentrated thing. they take
from an orange or a grape or a fruit and
so it doesn't have fiber and so there's
nothing to buffer the blood sugar. Our
bodies were designed to consume the
whole fruit in the whole form, not a
refined version of it. What's
interesting about fructose too, it
actually can alter up to 900 brain
genes. And the problem with fructose is
it doesn't really have a break system.
It's not very satisfying. We can consume
a lot of it. This is why people that
even consume high fructose corn syrup in
large amounts still don't feel
satisfied. And the other thing regarding
children, parents might think that juice
is healthy for kids. So they're giving
them a lot of it, not knowing it's not a
healthy thing to give children. So when
you take the juice out of an orange or a
grape, you get the same biological
response as you do when you consume
soda. Now, this third one has the
government seal of approval. Your doctor
probably even recommends it. It's been
on the health food pyramid for 50 years
and it spikes your blood sugars faster
than table sugar. Whole wheat bread, you
know, the stuff that's healthy for your
heart. It's a good source of fiber,
which actually it's not a good source of
fiber. It only gives you a little bit of
fiber. And in that fiber, you have
something called phytic acid, which
blocks nutrients like zinc and copper
and magnesium and calcium. Not only
that, on the glycemic index, it is
higher than table sugar. Okay. What is
bread? Bread is starch. What's a starch?
It's a string of glucose molecules stuck
together. And this glucose chain hooked
together can easily break apart and
basically now we just have sugar that's
going to spike your blood sugar. Now, I
do want to explain this one word to you.
It's called amalopectin A. It's very
different than other starches. It turns
into sugar, then spikes your blood sugar
faster than anything else I know. Did
you realize that two slices of whole
wheat bread can actually spike your
blood sugar higher than a Snickers bar?
Two slices of bread give you six
teaspoons of table sugar. And if you
ever actually read the ingredients in
your whole wheat bread, there's not just
whole wheat in there. There's a whole
bunch of other things they add in there.
Maltodextrin, added sugar,
preservatives, dough conditioners, and
monosodium glutamate, all sorts of
things. Now, since we talked a lot about
fructose, I want to just come back to
this 900 brain genes affected by
fructose. There's some interesting data
that the omega-3 DHA, okay, in wild
caught salmon, in sardines
can reverse the damage from the fructose
in 900 genes. So in other words, the
more fructose you consume, the more DHA
you need to consume to counter it. But
of course, the best thing to do is just
not buy this. Don't buy this anymore.
And don't buy this anymore. In fact, you
can make your own bread. And for more
information on that, I have the most
amazing bread recipe right here. Check
it out and then make it. You'll find it
delicious.
