There is a $19 billion lie being told in
medicine right now involving 30 million
Americans and probably not even one of
them knows it's going on. It involves a
sugar pill and a number so tiny you can
barely see it. This is a form that all
the doctors are supposed to give you
before you accept a treatment or a
medication, right? And there's three
pages of fine print of legalese and
massive confusion. And so what I did is
I read every single line and it just
didn't make sense to me. It was totally
confusing. There was conflicting
information. This took me between 8 and
9 hours to wrap my wits around it
because I just couldn't understand it.
And the average patient in the waiting
room probably spends about 30 seconds to
look this over and then they just sign
off. It's called an informed consent.
You are basically signing off that you
understand the risks, the benefits, and
the harms of that medication. And so
today I'm going to make this super
simple and I'm going to show you what's
not communicated in this form. Because
if they truly informed you and you
really understood what you're getting
yourself into, you would never in a
million years sign off on this informed
consent. A clinical psychologist named
Irving Kirsch used to believe in
antidepressants. He even recommended
that certain patients take them. But
then he did something that no one ever
did before. He filed a number of FOIA
request, which is a Freedom of
Information Act request, and he wanted
the raw data from every single
antidepressant trial that existed.
There's actually 74 of them. The drug
companies keep the raw data
confidential. And what he found was they
only published the ones that work, okay?
31%
of these publications were never
published because they didn't come out
right. Another 15% were rewritten to
make them look positive. Medical doctors
actually don't get the raw data to be
able to know if it's correct or not.
What he actually found is the drug
companies have inflated their results by
32%.
Now, the entire antidepressant industry,
the $19 billion industry,
uses this one scale called the Hamilton
Depression Scale and it goes from zero
to 51. These are items that are answered
by the doctor, not the patient. So if
someone actually looks depressed, they
can check off that they're depressed.
This is how they diagnose depression.
Not by blood test, not by anything
objective, it's this subjective Hamilton
Depression Scale. And by the way,
Hamilton never designed this scale to
diagnose depression, but that's what's
used as the gold standard. But the way
this works is the higher the number, the
more severe depression you have, okay?
What I want you to do right now is
envision this from zero to 51 as 51 ft
across this whiteboard. And so what the
drug companies did is they tested a drug
against a placebo, a sugar pill. And
here's what they found. The placebo, the
sugar pill, reduced depression by just
under 10 points, 9.6 points.
Now watch this.
The drug
only added a tiny additional 1.8
points. The placebo, the sugar pill,
does the heavy lifting. In fact, 82% of
the improvement is based on this sugar
pill placebo. Only a little tiny bit of
the improvement, a sliver of improvement
with depression, is the drug on this
zero to 51 scale. Now let that sink in
for a second. Because we're talking
about a $19 billion industry
based on this improvement right here.
And what's really wild is a good night's
sleep can lessen depression by six
points. That's more than three times the
effect of the drug. And here's the thing
that really got me.
In the United Kingdom, the National
Institute of Health said that you need
at least three points for it to be
considered clinically significant. Only
in America do we allow this tiny number
to be significant. So what does a
patient get for 1.8 points? Well, they
get a black box warning, which for this
medication indicates an increased risk
of suicide. You get sexual dysfunction,
decreased libido up to 74%.
Then you get something called post-SSRI
sexual dysfunction. What is that? That
means the sexual dysfunction happens
when you stop the drug. But now I want
to get into probably the worst side
effect of all of these side effects,
emotional blunting. Now, if you look at
this informed consent,
it's missing. It's not in the informed
consent. Emotional blunting that affects
between 40 and 60% of the patients. So
what is emotional blunting? You won't be
able to feel enjoyment anymore. You
won't be able to feel pleasure. You're
basically going to be numb. Yes, you
will be less sad, you'll have less
depression, but you also not be able to
experience any emotion, which by the
way, this leads me to this side effect
of discontinuation syndrome.
You can't come off this drug easily. In
fact, you have to go to a doctor to
taper off the drug very slowly,
sometimes over the course of months or
even years. And some people at the
expense of $30,000 a year just to come
off a drug that they're stuck on. Some
other side effects include insomnia,
nausea, anxiety,
even depression. Now, what's really
bizarre about this is what they do with
the placebo effect, okay? They subtract
it as noise. It's not nothing, it's
something. It's believing in something.
It's the patient's own mind healing
their body and they're subtracting the
heavy lifter, something that improves
82% of the lessening of depression. What
they should be doing is looking at what
does the heavy lifting and start diving
into research on this and focus on
lifestyle changes and things that don't
come with such a massive package of side
effects and harms. Well, the problem is
not the doctor's fault because this is
all the doctor sees, right? They don't
get the raw data. And so both the doctor
and the patient are misinformed, okay?
So this is really not an informed
consent. What I think we should do
is create a quick visual of the true
data showing the placebo benefit, the
benefit from the drug, and all the real
side effects as well as including all
the published data. I really don't think
it's okay for taxpayers to indirectly
pay for Big Pharma's research and not be
able to have access to the raw data to
make sure that it's correct. If we had
all the raw data and all the trials that
were done, we would be much more
informed and then a patient can make the
correct decision whether they want to
get on a drug that they can never get
off of. And really, if the benefits far
outweigh the harms. If a patient really
knew in advance that they're not going
to be able to come off this drug very
easily and if they did, they would have
major side effects, maybe they would try
other things like exercise, St. John's
Wort, omega-3 fatty acids, working on
their sleeping, anything that creates a
better benefit to harm ratio. If it took
me 8 to 9 hours to really wrap my wits
around this to understand it, just think
about the average patient. They don't
have a clue what they're getting
themselves into.
Now, I'm not telling anyone to come off
their medication, okay? That's between
you and your doctor. I'm not saying
depression is not real, okay? It's real.
All I'm saying is patients need to have
the true information in advance so they
can determine if they want to do this or
not. Because the way it is now, it's all
based in a lie. It's slight of hand.
Now, since we're on the topic of
depression, if you have not seen my
video on alternative things to do for
depression, you should watch this video
right here.
