Why do men die earlier by 6 years? I
really wanted to know this. So, I did a
deep dive into this topic and what I'm
going to show you is actually extremely
interesting. There's a lot of
speculation on why this is like men are
involved with jobs that are more of an
occupational hazard. Men go to doctors
less. And of course, men smoke more and
they drink more alcohol and they get
more heart attacks and strokes. That's
for sure. But women actually get more
autoimmune diseases than men. But that's
more chronic and they don't necessarily
die from those conditions. Why do women
live longer than men? That's the big
question. Well, it just so happens
there's a very specific gene called the
longevity gene, FOX 03, that actually
can help you live longer. Women express
that gene more than men because they
have estrogen. Estrogen activates that
gene. But there's a lot of other things
that can activate that gene that I'm
going to share with you today because
personally I would want to know so I can
live longer. There are also certain
cultures that have even more of an
expression of that gene than others and
they happen to live in areas like
Okinawa and Sardinia where people live
to be over a 100red years old. What does
this gene actually do? It helps prevent
cancer. It really helps you with gene
repair. It's like a stress resistant
gene that just allows you to adapt and
live in your environment a lot better.
Why did it turn out where women get to
express that gene more than men? This
all has to do with reproduction and the
actual purpose of fertility. Nature has
given that system way more protection
and it has created genes to help women
survive longer. And this is all great,
but then how do we activate this gene?
I'm going to show you right now all the
things that can trigger that gene that
you should be focusing on. And it
doesn't matter if you're male or female,
you should be following what I'm about
to show you. Okay? So, I have a list of
things that could increase the FOX3 gene
and also a list of things that will
decrease the FOX3 gene. So, let's let's
talk about number one, phytonutrients.
There are certain phytonutrients that
will increase this gene or increase the
expression of it. The first one is
called a zanthin. What the heck is that?
That's like a weird name. Well, that's
the uh pink pigment in that salmon that
you eat. It's in shrimp. It's in
lobster. It's in certain algae. It is
literally, I think, the most potent
antioxidant. It's 6,000 times stronger
than vitamin C, 100 times stronger than
vitamin E, and it gives protection for
your nerve cells, your eyes, your skin,
your cardiovascular system. Then we get
sulfurophane. This is naturally in
broccoli, but it's also in cabbage. It's
in a lot of the different cruciferous
vegetables. And some of you might say,
"Well, I'm a carnivore." Well, guess
what? When you eat grass-fed red meat
and even like raw dairy, you're getting
a lot of these phytonutrients because
the animal is eating the weeds that have
these compounds in it. So, you don't
necessarily need to consume herbs and
vegetables themselves if you didn't want
to. Then, we have something called EGCG.
That is a really amazing antioxidant in
green tea which has so many different
properties from blood sugar improvement
to anti-cancer to anti-inflammatory. I
mean the list is very very long.
Rveratrol has been known to increase
longevity because it's triggering this
gene right here. In fact, all of these
will trigger this gene. Next one is cold
and heat. And even the contrast between
cold and heat can activate this gene.
This is why people get benefit from
doing the cold bath and the sauna
because it's very therapeutic. And this
gene was actually created out of times
in the past where we as humans had to
endure the cold or the equator, the
heat, and we had to adapt to it somehow.
We had to survive. So, we created
certain genes to protect us. Let's take
a look at number three. Intermittent
fasting. This is a mini version of
starvation. Think about how many times
man has literally starved to death,
right? We had to adapt to famine,
starvation by developing certain
survival mechanisms. Number four,
ketones. I mean, even if you look this
up on Wikipedia, you're going to find
that ketones will trigger this. So, what
does this tell you? You're going to live
longer if you are using your ketones as
fuel because they trigger this gene. So,
this relates to guess what? A low carb
diet. Next one is exercise. Well, this
makes sense. The more exercise you do,
especially if it's like highintensity
interval training, you can activate this
gene and you're going to live longer.
Below this list are things that are
potent triggers for this gene, even more
than these right here. Prolong fasting.
Okay, we talked about intermittent
fasting, but prolong fasting is fasting
for 48 hours, maybe 72 hours, sometimes
maybe even longer. Huge impact on this
gene right here. And then number seven,
controlled oxidative stress. when you do
hypoxia training, forcing your body to
trigger this gene and adapt to it and
actually develop bigger red blood cells,
more fitness strength. So, this is one
little thing that I would highly
recommend if you want to take your
health to the next level. And then look
at number eight, sun. Interesting. Sun
will trigger this, the UV radiation. If
you're indoors all the time, you won't
have the full benefit of this right
here. Now, let's flip over here. What
what decreases this uh gene? Too much
insulin, which makes sense because
having type 2 diabetes will increase
insulin. That's going to shut this gene
down and you're not going to live as
long. That makes sense. Chronic
inflammation, that's an obvious thing.
But again, if you do intermittent type
exercise, you're going to develop
inflammation, then let your body
recover. Chronic stress, again, the key
thing is chronic, right? Versus
intermittent. Overfeeding,
eating constantly is really, really bad.
and you're going to inhibit this gene.
Of course, you're not going to live as
long. A sedentary lifestyle. Too much
sitting in front of the computer will
inhibit the gene as well. Heavy metals,
aluminum, mercury, things like that.
EMF, electromagnetic fields from cell
phones, from different type of
electrical fields that come off your
electronics is really bad. Then this one
right here is called endocrine
disruptors. Pesticides, insecticides,
herbicides, fungicides, plastics. Most
of these mimic estrogen. Now remember I
told you that estrogen will trigger
this.
Yes. But this indirect estrogen is
really bad. It will not trigger this. It
shuts it down and you don't get the
benefit of estrogen. I hope now you
understand why women live longer than
men.
But that doesn't mean that you can't
apply these and actually live just as
long as women. And since we're on the
topic of longevity, if you haven't seen
this other video on longevity, I'm going
to put it up right here. Check it out.
