the number one best collagen food that
no one's talking about. If you wanted to
take your collagen to the next level and
improve your skin, your joints, your
cartilage. When people typically think
about collagen, they think about bone
broth, pork rind, egg whites, and all of
those are great and you need to consume
them. Another thing about collagen is
that you do not get any collagen from
plants. If you are a vegan, you're not
going to get any collagen. To get your
collagen, it must come from an animal
source. When you see plant-based
collagen products, they're mainly
collagen supporting products like
vitamin C, maybe some minerals, things
like that. And it is true that you need
vitamin C for collagen to work. This is
why when someone has scurvy, a severe
vitamin C deficiency, they start getting
bleeding gums because the collagen in
their gums falls apart. The other thing
to know about collagen is that you don't
get a lot of collagen from meat, maybe 1
to 3%. And out of all your protein in
your body, collagen makes up 30% of all
that protein. So in other words, if
you're trying to get your collagen from
a steak, especially a tender steak
without much collagen, you need to go
outside your meat to get your collagen.
But meat does provide your protein, your
amino acids, which is different. As we
get older, even after the age of 25,
your collagen starts going down, down,
down, down. A person that is younger,
let's say they're 17 or 18 years old,
has the absolute best collagen. They
have joints that have cushions in them.
Their spine is super healthy. Another
really important of collagen is to
support your arteries because your
arteries should be elastic. When the
arteries lose collagen and become stiff,
you can get high blood pressure and
harding of the arteries. But collagen
provides the scaffolding of your skin to
prevent sagging skin or wrinkles, things
like that. And collagen is also
important in your eyes and have the lens
be elastic to be able to uh change its
shape. When you consume a lot of junk
food, refined sugar, starches, seed
oils, your collagen really tanks even
faster than aging. Now, real quick,
there's different types of collagen for
different purposes. You have type one
collagen, type two, type three, type
five, and type 10 collagen. Type one and
type three come from fish skin, chicken
skin, and bone broth. And that type of
collagen will help your skin, your
bones, and your hair. It provides the
skin with elasticity to prevent the
sagging of the skin. Type two collagen
mainly comes from cartilage. For
example, if you're eating a chicken leg,
you can boil that and get the cartilage
from that. Type two can really support
your joints. Collagen type five and 10
can come from rare organ meats or the
membrane in eggs. And those two types of
collagen can help deep into the cellular
area as well as supporting the eyes. And
so this is why it's important to have a
variety of different types of foods.
Some people use a supplement that has a
variety and they might add vitamin C to
it. Now, let's talk about the absolute
highest quality source of collagen that
is rarely talked about, but can take
your health to the next level. It
contains G AGs. It makes up your joints,
your skin, your fashcia, and even your
cell membranes. And you can increase it
with exercise. But a lot of people don't
have enough of it because they eat the
wrong foods or they're just getting
older. All of the things I'm talking
about are in this one source of
collagen. And this source is 90%
collagen. Certain plastic surgeons would
use it to inject into the skin to help
make the skin look younger. But guess
what? You can eat it and get similar
effects. Did you guess what it is?
Rooster comb. That's that little red
crest that these roosters have on the
top of their heads. And little do people
know, it is a superfood on steroids.
You're probably not going to find it in
a US grocery store. You'd have to go to
a Chinese or a Filipino grocery store or
even find a local farmer that has
chickens. Maybe at the farmers market
you can buy the rooster combs. Some
people might even buy this as a
supplement. But the point is for skin
health, for joint repair, for gut
healing, for osteoarthritis, rooster
comb provides the highest quality
collagen. If it's hard to find, you can
do plan B because there's a second one
on the list, and that would be chicken
feet. Chicken feet have a tremendous
amount of beneficial collagen. Not quite
at the level of the rooster comb, but
pretty close. And you can put in a stew,
you can boil it off and get the collagen
from it. Number three is fish skin.
Super beneficial. When I buy fish, I
always buy it with the skin and I eat
the skin, especially salmon skin. I can
live on that stuff. Beef tendons are the
next one on the list. Then bone broth.
But again, I recommend uh doing a
variety of different types of collagen
uh foods and or supplements providing
support on the different parts of your
body, whether it's the joint, the skin,
the gut, or in your eyes. Thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
