Is vitamin C really a vitamin? Most
people think vitamin C is just another
simple vitamin, something you get from
eating oranges, right? But what if I
were to tell you vitamin C isn't really
even a vitamin at all. And I'm just
comparing it to other vitamins which are
focused more on maintenance. Vitamin C
is actually a stress survival molecule.
It's very different than other vitamins.
And I want to go into that today because
it's so interesting. It's also very
important. It really has everything to
do with survival and emergency. So, you
can think about vitamin C as acting more
like a fire extinguisher. Your body uses
vitamin C when you're under stress, like
if you have an infection, if you have
inflammation, if you have an injury,
emotional stress, physical stress like
exercise stress. Also, when you have low
oxygen, you require more vitamin C. And
if you have high blood sugar or consume
high carbs, vitamin C is not going to
work in your body. I'm going to get into
that, too. Animals have the ability to
make vitamin C and they require a
tremendous amount of vitamin C when
they're stressed. But humans don't make
vitamin C. Humans lost their ability to
make vitamin C. And I'm going to explain
a theory that I have on why that is in a
little bit, but we are completely
dependent on getting vitamin C from our
food. So, I did a test on vitamin C and
I actually was very very deficient and I
was shocked that I was deficient because
I consume a lot of foods with vitamin C.
In fact, I consume a lot of sauerkraut.
And then in my test, it showed that I
was very deficient. And I'm like, how
can this be? One thing I was doing at
that time is I was exercising like
crazy. I was overtraining, creating more
stress to my body, and just sucking up
all this vitamin C from my diet,
creating a deficiency. So, vitamin C
deficiency doesn't just come from your
foods. It can come from stress, like
over exercise. And here's something else
that people don't realize. 90% of the
vitamin C used in supplements is
completely synthetic. It's called
industrial vitamin C. It's made from
corn sugar in factories, mostly
overseas, and I won't tell the country
that most of it comes from, China, but
it's super cheap. You can buy 2,000 lbs
of synthetic vitamin C for under $3,000.
Now, what would that actually come out
to per bottle of synthetic vitamin C?
Well, it comes out to only 30 cents a
bottle. So, when you see a bottle of
vitamin C at the store for like $5 or
$10, realize it's purely synthetic and
they're making a huge markup. Even
though it's cheap, you are getting a
synthesized industrial version of
vitamin C. In nature, vitamin C comes as
a complex with many different parts. It
doesn't just come as an ascorbic acid
antioxidant. And if you're going to get
vitamin C, read the labels. Make sure it
just doesn't have ascorbic acid. Make
sure it comes from actual food
complexes, okay? Not just one individual
synthetic chemical. The other
interesting thing about vitamin C is the
chemistry of vitamin C. It's shaped very
similar to sugar. In fact, vitamin C
uses the same doors to get in your cells
as sugar does. This means if you're
eating sugar or have high blood sugar as
in diabetes, that sugar or glucose is
going to compete for vitamin C and it's
going to win over the vitamin C. So,
you're not going to be able to absorb
vitamin C. This is why a lot of
diabetics or people that consume a lot
of carbohydrates are nearly always
deficient of vitamin C. Now, I want to
also explain why people are fatigued if
they're deficient in vitamin C. It's
because vitamin C supports the
mitochondria, the energy factory of the
cells, helping handle stress, helping
recycle other antioxidants,
helping you absorb iron so you can get
more oxygen in your blood. There's some
fascinating things about vitamin C and
oxygen, which I'm going to get into very
soon. But when your vitamin C is low,
your energy factories do not burn fuel
very efficiently. And this is why
someone's tired, weak, foggy, they can't
recover, and they have low endurance. In
fact, let's talk about the oxygen
connection right now. And this is
something that most people probably have
never heard about vitamin C. Vitamin C
helps your cells respond properly to
oxygen. Your cells have this little
oxygen alarm system that activates when
you're low in oxygen. And when your
cells are low in oxygen, there's a
sensor that tells the body to make more
vitamin C. When you're low in vitamin C,
your cells will be suffocating because
they're not going to have enough oxygen.
Realize also when I talk about lack of
oxygen, I'm also talking about
inflammation. Because anywhere in your
body that you have inflammation, you
will also have low oxygen. And in states
of inflammation and low oxygen, you're
going to have stress in that tissue.
People that don't have enough oxygen
when they're exercising will not have
endurance. Also relating to scurvy,
people think that scurvy is bleeding
gums and loose teeth. But scurvy is the
end stage of a severe vitamin C
deficiency. The real problem in modern
day is something called a subclinical
scurvy, which is not a full-blown
endstage, but it's definitely a
deficiency of vitamin C. And what would
that look like? That looks more like
slow healing. You bruise easily. You
have frequent infections,
chronic fatigue, chronic inflammation.
So, you don't actually have to have
bleeding gums or loose teeth to have
scurvy. But I will say this, sometimes
I'll see people with like really red
gums. Their gums bleed easily when they
brush their teeth. That is a major
vitamin C deficiency. So if you see
that, just tell the person they need to
up their vitamin C. Now, where do people
get vitamin C? Oranges are not the
highest source. There's many other foods
that have much higher amounts of vitamin
C than oranges, like bell peppers,
papaya, and sauerkraut. It has to be
raw. Okay, not pasteurized. So, you're
usually going to get it in the
refrigerated section. But before I get
in too deeply, I want to come back to
that orange juice. Realize that heat and
oxygen exposure lower the vitamin C. So,
as in pasteurized orange juice, which is
most orange juice. So, when you're
buying this orange juice from the
grocery store and thinking you're
getting any vitamin C, you might want to
think twice. And so if they claim that
it's a good source of vitamin C, just
look on the back of the label and you're
usually going to see they're going to
add vitamin C, but really are they
adding vitamin C or they just adding
some industrial scorbic acid and making
you think that it's legitimate vitamin
C. Okay, let's get back to the
sauerkraut. Okay, fermented vegetables,
especially sauerkraut, are loaded with
vitamin C. Kimchi also has a lot of
vitamin C. Your bacteria don't make
vitamin C, but they protect it. They
help stabilize the vitamin C and so the
reason why there's so much vitamin C is
it concentrates the vitamin C. So when
you consume it, it's a very good
bioavailable source of vitamin C. And if
you think about our modern environment,
right, we have high sugar, high stress,
high amounts of inflammation, low
amounts of real vitamin C in our diet.
All of this equals lower amounts of
vitamin C. So a couple recommendations
for vitamin C. Number one, make sure you
get it from your diet. I would consume
more fermented vegetables like
sauerkraut. At least half a cup each
day. That would actually give you
tremendous vitamin C. Bell peppers are
another great way to get vitamin C. But
more importantly, cut out the things
that block vitamin C, like the added
stress, the sugar. Go on a low carb
diet. Super important. And the more
stress you go through and the more
exercise you do, the more vitamin C you
should consume to compensate for that. I
have a free download that I want to give
to you. This free download is my daily
routine in a checklist. This is a
routine that I use every day to feel
like I'm 18 years old even though I'm 60
years old. And I want to give it to you
for free. And so there's a little link
down below. Click it and definitely
download that. Vitamin C is a
fascinating molecule. And if you have
not seen my other video on vitamin C
where I talk about all the different
parts of a vitamin C complex, super
fascinating. I put that video right up
here to check it out right now.
