So today we're going to discuss
something that I really have never
talked about in the video and it has to
do with censorship and what happened to
natural health a few years ago. You're
going to find this interview very
interesting because yes, it was very
very scary. But on a positive note, it
has a happy ending which I'm going to
share with you. But I would say a few
years ago, I can't tell you the exact
date, but I know it was in May. It was
all of a sudden I went to my YouTube
channel and literally I couldn't even
find myself before I was like all over
the place and then I you couldn't even
find me. So I was majorly censored and
then I was told you had to take down a
whole series of videos. So I took down
all my cancer videos and I put
everything on Rumble. Uh anything
related to vitamin D and natural
immunity, I had to take those down. I
had to take down anything related to
COVID. Like there was a whole things I
had to just take all these things down
and then they were going to give me a
free pass. But what moved in was medical
and so instead of if you typed in
something to find me you had to kind of
go way deep because they had Mayo
Clinic, Harvard, all these different
sites and so I didn't know what was
happening at the time but now I know
exactly what was happening. They use CO
as a Trojan horse to turn and rebrand
natural health. And so today I actually
brought on a terrorist or at least
someone that was labeled as a terrorist,
part of the dirty dozen. He's a very
good friend of mine, a beautiful human
being. Ser G. Welcome Sar G.
>> Thanks so much for having me Dr. Bur.
>> I just have a lot of admiration for you,
what you've been through, but here
[snorts] you have this
amazing channel. I I interviewed you
years ago and you had this amazing
channel with all this research trying to
help people with natural remedies from
sunlight to botanicals, all sorts of
things. And somehow they targeted you as
one of the dirty dozen. And can you tell
us a little bit about would they
classify you under a terrorist or what?
Yes, it sounds like a story too strange
to be true, but it did happen. And yes,
I along with others were basically
labeled as domestic extremists. And uh
DHS actually used the phrase terrorists
at one point to describe those who were
advocates of natural health um dietary
lifestyle modification for making your
life better and healthier as well as
those who were standing up for medical
freedom. So that did happen in the
window between 20 and 21 until you know
really until the latest uh shift in in
the power structure.
>> Before we get into that shift, let's
talk about what it was like. You had a
website, you had a business, you had a
YouTube channel. They just deplatformed
you. Well, actually, interestingly, as
you pointed out, many people were
starting to see censorship from the
perspective of Google basically taking
search results offline in 2019. And I
know you were probably one of those
because you, like me, have spent your
life just sharing information that, you
know, we're excited to get out there.
And so, um, Google did their digital
book burning event in 2019. it was
August where 99% of all natural health
results when you search Google were
removed overnight. And so that was um
the beginning of what we saw being kind
of a nightmare when it comes to free
speech and being able to share uh
alternative views of health which
include natural integrative functional
medicine. Uh, but it was really the
disinfozen
campaign that was initiated in uh May of
2021
that put us on the so-called uh hit list
when it comes to being um attacked.
>> Let's just take a look at your crimes.
Okay. Disagreeing with consensus. So
when we talk about consensus, are they
talking about
really scientific proof or is it pretty
much just whatever they agree on? I
mean, it's like whatever the medical
profession agrees on is consensus,
right?
>> I think you're really hitting the nail
on the head. In fact, well, peer review
is supposed to really produce a
consensus on certain topics. So what
I've done with greenmedinfo.com is
gather at this point a 100,000 published
peer-reviewed studies in support of
natural health. So you'd think that the
consensus actually supports sharing that
information. But because essentially we
have what I think is better described as
eminencebased medicine versus
evidence-based medicine. uh meaning
historically the CDC has uh basically
made pronouncements you know sort of
like um proclamations versus hey here's
all the research saying that ketogenic
diet for example is not healthy for you
you know they don't do that they tend to
rely on people's blind faith and
authority
>> yeah and I think if we um if we just
look at the essence of what happened
it's um because I look through the the
policy the YouTube channel policy on
misinformation
and that is pretty much if you disagree
with consensus then that is
misinformation. I think you and I and
everyone watching would agree that
science is supposed to disagree. We may
made all the major discovery through
disagreement and now we have to I mean
this has just gotten to the point where
it's just so like what planet am I in
the matrix? [laughter] What is that
going on? I mean even like in the the
21st edition of this book right here the
US dispensary book where this is uh
written in 1926 this was a medical book
and like over 75% of the remedies were
botanicals right
>> now zero so pretty much now here we are
doing what medicine did way back then
and uh boy it's like we get attacked we
get silenced you can't talk about
certain things and it's just it's
fascinating because it's almost like
what side of science are you on? Are you
part of our group of science or are you
on the real science? So, it's really
been frustrating navigating through all
this. But I think someone like you
that's been right in the middle of it.
Literally, it destroyed your business,
family, everything. It was very much
like an inquisition and persecution
which I found to be almost poetic
because as you rightly point out you
know today people think in terms of well
let's trust the science or science is
settled and that's not what science is
actually. It's more a methodology of
discovery and coming to understand
reality you know through testing and
retesting and changing your hypothesis.
And so essentially what you know I found
is that we have instead what's really
scientism which is I think a religion
that has actually devoured all other
religions. you know during the you know
so-called uh declared pandemic some
called a plemic what we saw was all our
religious leaders from the Daly Lama to
the pope saying you know what although
we believe in a himsa we don't believe
in using uh let's say dloy fetus derived
tissue and injecting that into you as a
violation of pro-life they said you know
what in this case it's that big of an
emergency that we have to suspend all
our religious beliefs because science
knows is better and that is what I call
medical monotheism. So scientism
inexorably leads to medical monotheism
which means there's no heterodoxy. You
can't diverge or dissent from the
standard of care or you have to
essentially be eliminated. And that's a
that's really what happened. I was uh
labeled a heretic and they said off with
his head and essentially years of
persecution because of you know my
belief that you should be able to
breathe without a mask or you should be
able to choose vitamin D and turmeric
instead of you know a mandated uh
pharmaceutical.
>> It's really sad but on one hand I'm glad
it happened and I'm going to tell you
why. I want to just touch on this other
organization. It's called CCDH.
tell us about that organization and it's
a very tiny organization. I think they
have 15 staff. They're out of the UK,
but they have influenced a very large
population in the US at least. Right.
Yeah. They actually started in 2018
in order to affect the elections in the
UK. There was a candidate Jeremy Corbyn
and he was, you know, on the left and
they were basically saying he's an
anti-semite so we have to cancel him. I
think later it was found that that
probably wasn't true, but it was a very
effective mechanism [clears throat] to
oust him. So, originally it was the
Labor Party in the UK that set this up
for political reasons. And then when the
pandemic happened, they shifted gears
immediately and they used the same
techniques which included demonetizing
opposition media. In the UK, it was
called the Canary.
>> And what does it stand for? Oh, it's the
Center for Countering Digital Hate,
which is a overwhelming word given they
basically, you know, spent many years uh
inciting hatred against American uh free
speech advocates who were all about, you
know, medical choice and parental rights
and religious freedoms.
>> They were against hate. Well, that's
great. That sounds like a great
organization to support digital hate,
right? And that you're thinking, well,
how does that connect to you? like how
does that connect to health? Explain
that to me.
>> Yeah. So I think what it essentially is
is it is what's known as um a cutout. So
certain intelligence and government
adjacent NOS are created so that they
can essentially launder free speech
suppression because we have this great
thing in the US right called the
constitution. And you're not allowed to
say even if someone is lying the
constitution actually protects their
speech. That's the farthest thing from
me or any of the advocates like you know
our dear colleague RFK Jr. were doing
when they said hey we care about
children's health and we believe
informed consent and gold standard
science. I don't think you can call that
hate but they essentially used a
playbook to try to characterize our
speech as dangerous, irresponsible and
even violent. And by doing that they put
us in essentially a quasi uh criminal
status so that then they could deploy
deplatforming demonetization and then
even some uh you know threats of lawfare
happened in the United States at one
point against the disinfo dozen for
supposedly wrongful death because
someone might have read something that
we had written and the the idea was oh
they they didn't get their 10th jab so
maybe we harmed them because you know
they're life saving. and they're safe
and effective.
>> So, this organization somehow was able
to influence
all of the major social media platforms,
right? Somehow influenced them to take
out certain influencers,
not just about co if it was just about
co they would have just took that out,
but it took it down all of your stuff
related to sunlight, walking, natural
vitamins. I mean, like the whole thing,
right? That's exactly a great point is
that so greenmedinfo.com
at present has 10,000 topics because I'm
kind of an obsessive person when it
comes to health information. I spent
well it's been about 16 years in front
of a computer looking through millions
of abstracts from PubMed which is the
National Library of Medicine to find the
ones that are the clinical pearls that
show wow you know natural health
actually has some science and you know
maybe we should consider an alternative.
So what they wanted to do is make it
look like we only cared about vaccines.
And we do have one database on vaccines.
It has 1,400 studies and it shows that
there are problems with safety and also
efficacy claims on some of the vaccines.
So that is essentially why they wanted
to take out my entire project and my
life.
>> Holy macro. I mean,
I'm just fascinated by some of the
terminology like their definition of
misinformation, misinformation equals
natural health type activities. And I
just want to bring up one interesting
point because if you just take a look at
any at any nutritional bottle, there's
going to be disclaimer there
to the FDA saying this has not been
evaluated by the FDA. This product is
not intended to diagnose, treat, cure,
or prevent any disease. So basically,
the definition of a drug is anything
that does that. And so there's all these
disclaimers because they actually
captured the definition to if if you
were to say broccoli can do anything for
prevention of any disease, then that
could be classified as disease. and
especially if you're selling broccoli or
broccoli pills and then all of a sudden
you shift to the FDA now that FDA is
going to go after you. But what's
interesting is the manipulation of just
words, right? Drugs, disease,
um misinformation.
Uh all of a sudden natural health has
now become terrorist. I mean, the
reality is that in the state of Florida
where I live, even today, unless you're
a dietician or a physician, you can't
actually recommend um let's say uh
cherries for arthritis, even though
Michigan State University found that it
was more effective than ibuprofen, which
actually has a huge toxicological risk
profile. It's like vio actually has a
lot of issues because uh that's a class
D felony. um they they eliminated
naturopaths, nutritionists and uh
essentially you can't uh practice and
homeopaths natural medicine here it's
considered uh dangerous and uh you know
irrational and yet the basis of all
medicine really came from indigenous
traditions and so it's um remarkable but
I think we know it has a lot to do with
the fact that yeah exactly merc manual I
have uh done a lot of reporting on
1899's merc manual
It's amazing. It's full of natural
healing items, you know, from glandulars
to, you know, uh, herbs that were
indigenous here. And, uh, so, you know,
this is a ongoing tension that has, you
know, been going on for really decades
and maybe over hundred years, right?
>> You know, what's really cool about this
terrible topic is the happy ending. And
I think this whole stress that occurred
with you and I think RFK was one of the
dirty dozen as well, wasn't he?
>> Yeah, he was put on the list and um as
you were pointing out, it's kind of a
happy ending story because look at where
we find ourselves now. Oh god. Like out
of all the places they would not want
him to be
right over HHS like running the show.
Wow. What a what a turn of events. How
how ironic. And uh what I'm noticing too
even with your your channel now because
they actually replatformed you, right?
They kind of said, "Okay, now you can
come back in. We're we're I'm sure they
gave you a lot of apologies and they
were really sorry about that." And they
probably, you know, made up the damage.
I'm sure they did that.
>> Well, what's the most amazing about the
reinstatement of the three accounts
actually they took away from me 5 years
ago is um actually four years ago was
that they said that they looked at the
community standards and they should
never have removed our account, which is
pretty remarkable given I have a federal
civil rights lawsuit against um big tech
for this very thing. So, they actually
did us a really big favor by
acknowledging that it was actually their
Alphabet CEO uh a month before the
reinstatement who said it was government
that essentially coerced them to do
these things which is a convenient
excuse because they're also looking for
protection right now from the EU service
digital services act and the UK online
safety bill which is essentially big
tech is feeling bullied by these
censorship forces now even though they
were the ones that deployed it at scale.
Millions of Americans experienced this.
But, you know, looking at things now
restoratively, I'm very happy they've
done that. It's a really good sign that
those who were defamed uh and
deplatformed like myself are being
restored, you know, which is an
appropriate thing, I think, for them to
do.
>> Well, here's the happy ending into this
whole thing, right? If it wasn't for
what just occurred, I do not think we
would have the explosion that I see
right now in natural health. People want
alternative. They want lifestyle
changes. As you know, and a lot of other
people know, 80 to 90% of most chronic
disease related to lifestyle. Yet, we
only study the research is only 1.9% of
that. So, it's a very underappreciated,
ignored area in healthcare. Uh, but that
being said, this is what people really
want. They want to be able to use these
natural things. They don't want to be on
a polyfarm pharmacy of drugs. RFK right
now where he is is um is cleaning house.
And it's so funny because some people
will say like, "Oh, he's not a doctor."
Well, yeah. Well, that's cuz we need we
need an attorney that could clean up the
the amount of unethical things that are
going on in that uh department for
years. The amount of corruption. We need
to clean house. We do not need to keep
things the same. Um, we spent what 4
point is it 4.9 trillion now on our
healthcare and we have what one of the
worst rated health care systems in the
world. So here we got RFK in
I mean it's just like such a turn of an
event and he's cleaning stuff up and you
and I are are supporting that and so I
think we've had some wins recently. You
want to mention a couple wins that are
going on recently? Well, I think you're
absolutely correct that what's happened
is that about a hundred times more
people are awake right now to the
importance of bodily sovereignty as a
nonpartisan grassroots global movement
because without the right to determine
what gets put into your body forcibly or
you know through nudges and coercion you
really don't have any other civil
liberties cuz bodily sovereignty is the
basis of all sovereignty. So I think
that essentially what those who largely
capitalized on this um egregious
violation of I think it's essentially
bodily sovereignty that occurred with
the mRNA japs. you know, they're
starting to wake up and realize that,
wow, we can take back control of our
health and our family's health and
they're embracing natural medicine and
lifestyle changes and mindset at scale
in a way that I could never have
imagined. So, we were just in Brussels
launching the Make Europe Healthy Again
Commission, which was an amazing event.
And there is absolutely I can see now a
spark that's been lit in every country
inspired by what's happening here. And
uh I think that you know ultimately
those who maybe were trying to do uh
some harm or trying to profit off of the
innocence and trust that people had in
these institutions. They're starting to
realize that, wow, we can take
responsibility for our health and we can
get empowered. And I'm just so happy to
see it happen.
>> They're hungry for this. I mean, they're
they they want um freedom to be able to
use whatever they want for their health.
>> Absolutely. I think that they appreciate
it more than ever because um you know
there are still some really intense
mandatory vaccine schedules and um the
pharmaceutical agenda is extremely
entrenched. But when you look at even
the statistics of how many people
embrace natural medicine or food as
medicine, it's really increasing
exponentially. And so and you know in
part also because of the incredible work
you've been doing. Uh it's amazing to
see people go to you know media um
social media etc to follow those they
trust and I think that's really a
beautiful thing.
>> Big pharma is at the all-time low trust
that they've ever been. I mean I think
even in a couple years they've dropped
like 28 points down even lower. What do
you think the playbook is now? How are
they going to be able to control the
narrative? What what are they doing in
attempts to control the narrative now?
Well, I think that you and I have both
observed that certain influencers that
are claiming that they're doing, you
know, their service and their
communications not because they're being
paid, but just because they care so much
about sharing the benefits of
pharmaceuticals and vaccines and totally
attacking natural health. It's it's
clear that there's a lot of money under
the table that's being exchanged. And um
I know that recently there was even an
investigative piece of Dr. Mike, which
it was stunning that he claimed, hey, I
I'm not being paid by pharma, and yet
there's a million dollar uh, you know,
opensource example that pharma actually
has him as a consultant. So, I think
that's one of the ways that they're
really trying to manipulate is going
direct to to certain influencers.
>> Yeah, I've noticed that there's just
like a a wave of influencers that are
coming out and talking about these
talking points. They're not like blatant
uh oh buy this drug. They're very
carefully crafted messages that navigate
through the waters and if they're
talking about let's say they want to
support junk food, they're not going to
say to eat junk food. They'll say there
is no bad food. Uh you shouldn't
demonize anyone food. As long as we have
it in moderation and you exercise, I
those corn flakes would be okay. They're
actually attacking the competition. So,
they're hardcore going after RFK, Maha.
They're going after me, going after you,
and they try to find something that we
said on the internet a long time ago and
take it out of context and try to
invalidate it. But what they don't
realize
is that they're just bringing more
attention to the people are not stupid.
They're bringing more attention to the
issue and uh they end up helping our
message and so they're going deeper and
deeper in the ground. I think the what I
would recommend reaching out to these
people, what I would do if I were them
is I would just uh listen to what people
want, come clean, make up the damage,
and focus on what people want. They want
to be healthy. What? Let's focus on that
rather than trying to tear someone down.
And also, people don't want you to take
money from big industry or big
corporations. They don't they're not
going to trust you anymore once they
find out. And unfortunately,
95%
of all these influencers that are taking
money are not disclosing it. And it's
just a matter of time before they get
found out because I think there's a
$50,000 fine. So, unfortunately, they're
going to be uh in big trouble.
But it's it's just all new right now.
This is a new thing. This is a new way
to control the media or at least
attempts to control the media. And uh on
the good note is it's really helping our
cause of just wanting to do natural
health and do it more of a grassroots
because people can see through these
things.
>> I would agree because if they hadn't
tried so hard to attack and defame and
distort individuals like RFK Jr.,
there's no way that he would have had
the mass popular support that actually
got him into the most powerful position
to be able to actually implement the
reforms that we all know we need. So I
think that that playbook is now uh
outdated and even the way that they've
tried everything in their power to take
me out and to try to hurt me. The
reality is I have more people that have
you know been with me on this journey
like yourself that have provided me so
much support. And what I mean by that is
spiritually that's the only thing that
has gotten me through this is people
that have cared who resonate with true
statements and then they go ahead and
they you know join this movement. And so
I hope that we can get to a place where
big pharma eventually realizes that you
know what you don't necessarily need to
make a million
times your your your your you know
profit margin you know by deceiving
people. you can actually have an honest
um business model where the people
you're working for, you know, patients,
for example, consumers, you're actually
trying to help their their bodies. And I
mean, I know this is a little bit naive,
but I really think maybe they'll join
our movement. Maybe they'll embrace
Maha, they'll have happier lives and
families, and that they can, you know,
do better for themselves in the world.
That's what I know you and I really
believe in, peace, and that's what we
want. I just wish they used a much
better picture of you because when that
picture that they used to push out
there. I don't know where they found it,
but it was like like you getting up in
the morning and like here's [laughter]
I'm like what? You could have used a
much better picture.
>> You know, I finally actually was able to
get Wikipedia to use my professional
picture to someone was helping me
because they just do a screenshot to
make you look as villainous as possible.
But gosh,
>> the reality is I'm not a villain. I'm
actually a pretty nice guy. You know,
>> you're not just a nice guy. You're one
of the most beautiful human beings I
ever met. I mean, like you're just like
the essence of you is just total caring
and love. So, um I appreciate everything
you've done.
>> Well, thank you. And it's amazing
because I feel the same about you. And I
think that's the beauty of the what's
happened is that people have come to
really find their soul family. You know,
with all of the stress and the division
they've tried to sew, it's really just
brought us closer together and we're
stronger than ever. So, I thank you so
much.
>> Thank you, Sarah. I appreciate it and uh
we'll continue this conversation.
>> Thanks so much.
