We're going to talk about the Ozic trap
and what they don't tell you when you
lose 50 to 100 pounds. Let me actually
show you what happens to your body when
you lose weight on Ozic. Let's say you
originally weigh 250 lbs. You start the
drug over 68 weeks and you end up losing
on an average about 50 lbs. 40 lbs of
what you lost, it is not fat. It's
actually muscle. So, you lost 30 lb of
fat, but you also lost 20 lb of muscle.
And when you lose 20 lb of muscle, you
haven't gotten smaller, you've
essentially downgraded your V8 engine to
a lawnmower engine. So, after 68 weeks,
you stop the drug. And then within a
year, the clinical trials show that you
will gain back 2/3 of the weight that
you lost. But here's the part that
should terrify you. What comes back is
nearly all fat. The muscle does not come
back. You're 233 lbs. You lost a total
of 17 lbs, but all of that was muscle,
not fat. So, that puts a person in a
situation where now their metabolic
machine is even slower than when they
started. And this is why they will tell
you that you have to be on this for the
rest of your life at $1,000 a month.
Ompic is actually hijacking a system
that you already have in your body that
should be working, but it's not because
it's dysfunctional. I'm going to show
you how to use that system that's
already in place. Before I show you the
full system that OMPIC is borrowing
from, I'm going to show you a very
simple and powerful thing that you can
do starting at your next meal. The first
thing that you should do when you eat is
you should eat a combination of protein
and fiber back and forth. Don't eat all
the protein and then start in the fiber.
Eat a little bit of protein, a little
fiber, a little protein, little fiber.
There's some clinical trials that show
that that can actually reduce your blood
sugar spikes by 29 to 40%. I mean, I
don't even know any supplements that can
come close to that data. It's just a
simple hack and a simple thing that
anyone can do. All right, so now let's
show you how the GLP1
system works. Inside your digestive
system, you have these specialized cells
called L cells. And on these cells, you
have these tiny little sensors. And
there's various things that can press
them to create an effect and increase
this thing called GLP1. When you take
something like a
synthetic version of this that's
bypassing all of this and not just
pressing one of those buttons, it is
really keeping it pressed for like an
entire week. And typically what a GLP1
is doing is three things. It's telling
the brain, I am full. Number two, it's
releasing insulin. So, if there are some
blood sugar problems, it's going to go
in there and remove that. And number
three, it's going to slow the digestion,
okay? So, the food doesn't dump too
fast. So, this is one of the systems
that the body uses to maintain healthy
weight. But here's the problem. In most
people today, this system is broken. you
have a problem with the whole insulin
situation and the food could actually
move too fast through the digestive
tract. So, Ozepe comes in there and
creates a super powerful effect to
bypass everything and very powerfully
push that button to make sure that
you're triggering GLP1 and at doses that
you would normally never produce and
that's why you have a lot of the side
effects. So, the big question is, is
there a way to fix this system? And the
answer is yes. And I'm going to show you
exactly how to do that with a very
specific protocol based on real science.
The company behind OMIC and WGOI
generated over $20 billion in a single
year. Their stock price tripled. Their
internal strategy was not to cure
obesity. It was to create lifetime
patients. And so the drug companies with
the backing of the FDA have now kind of
encouraged people to never come off this
drug. Why can't we just show people how
to activate their own system without the
drug, without the $1,000 a month revenue
stream? So, let's dive into how to
activate this system without Ompic. So,
without getting too technical into the
science and talking about the specific
receptors, I'm just going to give these
a number. Okay? So, the first two
receptors, which you don't need to know
the name, are triggered by something
called shortchain fatty acids. your
microbes will ferment fiber and turn it
into acetic acid. And this is why apple
cider vinegar and some of these short
chain fatty acids have the capacity to
trigger these first two buttons. Now,
does it compare to GLP1? No. It's a tiny
effect. But if we stack all of these
together, we can create a bigger effect.
In this category right here, we have
fermented foods like sauerkraut. We also
have apple cider vinegar. But if you
think about it, if you're taking apple
cider vinegar diluted in water, you're
creating a very short little press on
one of those buttons versus consuming
fiber with each meal. Because when these
microbes break down fiber, it's going to
turn into small chain fatty acids. And
that's going to create a much bigger
effect than just drinking a little apple
cider vinegar. And we'll come back to
fiber in a little bit. But then we have
the third, fourth, and fifth buttons.
Those are activated by certain fats,
omega-3 fats, fish, fish oil, civer oil.
We also have olive oil, and we have
avocado oil. And also, as a side note,
ozic only triggers one of these buttons.
And yes, it triggers it pretty hard. But
what I'm talking about right now is how
to trigger all eight. Number six and
seven are amino acids. Okay? I'm talking
about high quality animal protein.
Triggers the L cell and activates GLP-1.
And that's why protein is one of the
most satisfying macronutrients because
it triggers this right here. Bile salts
activate GLP-1. And also I learned that
bile salts not only activate GLP-1 but
they have the ability to increase more
of these L cells in your digestive
system which makes your L cells more
sensitive to GLP1. And then I looked at
certain types of bile salts, right? And
I found Tutka being one that can
actually create a significant effect.
And I'm not saying that you have to take
bile salts, but if you were to take tuta
or bile salts, make sure you take this
with a meal to help activate it. All
right. Now, let's talk about the
specific fiber you would need to make
more of these short chain fatty acids.
Could you make these short chain fatty
acids with a salad? Unfortunately, not
very much. I'm not recommending not to
have it, but it's not something that's
going to be very significant to produce
this right here and activate the L cell.
Why? because it's not the right type of
fiber for the microbe to convert into
this short chain fatty acid. And by the
way, this is what feeds the colon cells.
And again, we come right back to the
microbe. The microbes have helped us in
so many different ways for our health,
even helping us with weight loss. So, a
lot of people ask me, "What supplements
do I recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not
biased of my own high-quality supplement
line, but if you go to Amazon and type
Dr. Berg supplements, you'll find more
information. You don't want to just have
any old fiber. It has to be a specific
type of fiber. Okay? And so let's go
through the list of the types of fibers
that can help increase this right here.
All right. Let's start from the top.
Inulin, which is a fiber in garlic and
onions, is very, very powerful in making
this right here. So you might want to
just add garlic and onion to a lot of
your foods. So we have garlic, onions,
leak, asparagus, artichoke, flax seed,
chia seed. You can maybe put that in
some shake with some kefir, something
like that. And then the fiber in
avocado, but instead of the salad, what
you should probably use as your salad is
sauerkraut. One teaspoon of sauerkraut
can be way better than a big salad if
you're trying to activate your GLP1.
It already has in it short chain fatty
acids from the microbes that are
breaking it down. Second, it gives you
live bacteria lactobacillus which is
part of the gut microbiome. And then
third, you have the fiber, okay, cabbage
itself, which is the raw material to
feed the microbes. So the fiber in
cabbage is a good fiber to actually
activate this. So honestly, if I were
you, if you wanted to mimic this, I
would have at least a tablespoon of
sauerkraut with everything you eat. And
remember, consume your protein with
fiber. So even with me, what I do is if
I'm going to have like a burger, I'll
put the sauerkraut on the burger and
I'll eat it together. Or you could put
the onions with the burger and eat that
together. Or onions with eggs and eat
that together. Or you could mix the
avocado with the egg or the avocado with
your meat and eat it together. So, I
wanted to step back for a moment and
look at the big picture. Here's what the
broken system is doing to our body. We
develop diabetes. We get a fatty liver.
And this is why we're hungry all the
time. And we crave certain things and we
have blood sugar issues. All of those
things are downstream. Okay? They're
over here. And this is where medicine
treats people. This is what they focus
on. even obesity, they'll tell you that
that is a primary cause when it's really
not. It's somewhere in the middle right
here. Like even visceral fat. Yes, it is
true that visceral fat creates problems
with inflammation and it creates
toxicity in your body and it can
actually worsen insulin resistance, but
it's not at the root cause. It's right
in the middle right here. And they're
telling you that, well, that's the cause
and we have to treat that. But in
reality, it's late on the chain of
events. Unfortunately, medicine does not
look at root causes. They do not focus
on lifestyle changes. And this is the
problem with ozic. It's focusing on
something way downstream. It literally
takes 10 to 15 to 20 years before you
get pre-diabetes. Okay? So this insulin
resistance has to be brewing in the oven
for many many years before you even come
over here. And so if we go backwards
right here, this is where we need to
focus on ultrarocessed foods, a
sedentary life. The food is too abundant
and too available. So literally we're
grazing 24/7 because the food is in our
face. So all of the things I told you
are going right back to down over here
to the root cause. These are lifestyle
changes. Anyone can do this. It's going
to actually help you reestablish these L
cells and can create a huge impact. But
with a couple additional things I'm
going to show you, it can be significant
and on top of that, you won't lose your
muscle and you don't have to take a drug
and there won't be side effects. So,
let's just kind of go through the list.
Number one, I would highly recommend
that you eat a little protein, a little
fiber, a little protein, little fiber.
Eat these together as the first thing
that you do. Number two, ditch the
starches and the sugars. When you start
decreasing the refined carbohydrates,
you're going to adapt to your fat,
burning your own fat, and your appetite
is going to go away just from this right
here. I highly recommend that you walk
after your meals. Not only are you going
to burn off any sugar in your
bloodstream, but you're going to reduce
your stress. Walking reduces stress,
which is going to automatically help you
sleep. And number four, probably the
most important that should be up here,
one to two meals only per day. No eating
between the meals and especially at
night, no snacking. After dinner, put a
little sign on your refrigerator that
says the kitchen is closed. And lastly,
if you're ready, introduce weight
training. Weight training is the
absolute best way to preserve muscle
mass as you age. Realize that your
muscle is a metabolic machine. It's your
metabolism. If you have good muscles and
enough muscles without atrophy, your
metabolism will be much healthier,
especially as you age. And so many
people lose muscle mass and then they
start developing more fat ratio. So now
that you have these basics, I have a lot
more details about intermittent fasting
in this video right here. Very
important. Check it out.
