I used to think that avocados were the
most amazing superfood that you could
possibly eat. I would recommend them,
tell my patients to consume these until
I found this. When they arrive at the
grocery store, many times they put them
into this gas chamber. Then they
artificially ripen them with something
called ethylene gas. The problem with
this is when you do this prematurely,
you no longer help develop the natural
flavor chemicals because you're creating
in this artificial ripening process. You
don't develop the phytonutrients. That's
why when you buy it, it looks perfect on
the outside, but on the inside, it's
terrible. Anytime you force something to
ripen, it's very unnatural. Let's talk
about avocado oil. I read this research
study that they evaluated 22 different
samples, looking at all the major brands
and evaluating unrefined versus refined
avocado oil. They really dove into the
oxidation of this oil. I really want you
to get this. So, we cut an apple in
half. On the left side, I put lemon
juice. On the right side, I did not. As
you can see, it's a lot darker than the
left side. That's oxidation. Oxidation
is like the rusting out of something.
When it comes to avocado oil, there is a
tremendous amount of oxidation
occurring. My question is, what the
heck's going on? I'm spending a lot of
money in this. Just think about an
avocado, right? And compare that to seed
oils like corn oil or cottonseed oil.
They're very different because the
avocado oil doesn't come from the seed
of the avocado. It comes from the pulp.
You get vitamin E, which is an
antioxidant. You get chlorophyll, which
also is an antioxidant. Big problem with
consuming seed oils or even avocado oil
when it's oxidized is it's going to add
more inflammatory things to your body.
In some of these products, they found
other oils in these avocado oils like
soy oil or canola oil as a way of
diluting it and selling it at a cheaper
price. They found 82% of avocado oil is
not what it says it really is. And then
they do a process called deodorization.
They're taking the odor out. You can't
taste this oxidation. But does that mean
the oxidation's not there? No. It's
still there. It's still highly
inflammatory. Question is, how do they
get away with it? Well, this is what I
found that was actually quite shocking.
There is no official US rules on these
things. In other words, olive oil has an
international definition of what extra
virgin means, but not with avocado oil.
There's no legal binding definition of
the way that they're supposed to process
these things. This has opened up the
door for a lot of corruption. There's
all sorts of scams going on trying to
dilute avocado oil with other oils, but
on the label, you can't tell the
difference. What was really shocking in
this research study, which I'm going to
put a link down below, there were some
products that had zero avocado oil in
them. Instead, there was soybean oil,
canola oil, despite the labeling of
pure. Don't worry, it gets worse.
Country of origin. It's probably grown
in California and they just process it
there and they ship it to me, right? If
it says a product of the US, it can be
grown in China, blended in Mexico, but
it's bottled in the US. This makes it a
product of the US. Unfortunately, the
regulations, the enforcement is just not
there for avocado oil. Then we get to
the expiration date. There is no law
that you have to have an expiration date
on these bottles. On this bottle right
here, it says best used by and then they
give you a date, but it doesn't even
mention the word expiration date. And it
doesn't even mention when this oil was
processed. Makes it very difficult to
know how long that material has been
sitting in that bottle. But I will point
out one thing about avocado oil is you
want to get it in the dark bottles in
glass, not clear plastic because light
can also oxidize the oil. Next point,
guacamole. Many of the guacamole in fast
food restaurants don't contain much
avocado. They're replaced with green
peas, uh, hydrogenated oils, food
starches, of course, it's kind of like
green goo. And then I also want to
mention the point about cosmetics. They
say they use a lot of avocado oil or
so-called avocado oil. Yet, the first
thing on the list is soy oil and the
second is palm oil and then mineral oil.
And of course, at the very bottom, you
see that they've just put this tiny bit
of avocado oil creating this illusion
that it's all avocado oil when it's
really not. How do we navigate through
this? If you're going to buy avocado
oil, make sure it's a dark bottle and
glass. Make sure it actually has an
expiration date. Some companies put that
on there. Don't always go for the
absolute cheapest brand. If you could
also find the harvest date, that would
be the best thing to look at because you
don't want to buy a product that is like
a year old. Also, when you look at the
actual oil, it should be slightly tinted
green. It shouldn't be clear unless you
buy something that's refined cuz we want
the chlorophyll in there. When you buy
actual avocados, I recommend that you
buy them from California, like the host
variety, not the ones in the bag that
are really cheap and that are really
shiny. Sometimes they put this wax on it
to make it look way better than it
really is. With me, I'll do the like the
gentle thumb press. Obviously, if it's
too ripe, you could feel that it just
your thumb goes too deep or if it's not
ripe enough, it will create no
indentation. I would be very weary of
buying any guacamole from a fast food
restaurant because it has literally less
than 5% avocados, if not zero. All that
being said, I want to tell you avocados
can be super healthy for you if you get
the right kind because they have very
healthy fat profiles. They only have 10%
of the omega6 oils versus seed oils are
like 40 or 50 or more percent. One of
the really cool things I like about
avocados is the amount of potassium they
have. Because in one medium avocado, you
can get 5 6 7 8 up to 900 mg of
potassium from one avocado. And on top
of that, avocados are loaded with
magnesium, which is another very
powerful electrolyte. The absolute best
thing for you to learn right now is what
potassium actually does for your body.
If you have not seen this video, you
need to watch it right now. I put it
right here.
