How to rid your sinus and lung mucus
with salt. This is literally a $2 cure.
And salt might be the missing weapon
that your sinuses are begging for. Using
simple salt is one of the best things
that you can use, but you need to
understand what type of salt because if
you use the wrong one, it can actually
burn the sinuses. So, the first thing
you need to know is that mucus is not
the problem. It's the strategy. And a
lot of people that have sinus issues,
they have inflammation for sure, but
usually it's not a deep infection. And
when you have something that is
incorrectly diagnosed and you treat it
with a medication, you actually suppress
the symptoms deeper and they hang around
a lot longer. Your body deploys mucus as
a trap to engulf the bacteria or engulf
the mold or the particles that might be
irritating the upper respiratory tract.
Now, this is really an immune reaction.
Okay? Okay. And there might be microbes
involved. There also could be a fungal
infection involved or even a mold
infection or even a viral infection. So
don't right off the bat assume it's an
infection that you need to treat with
antibiotics. And the reason for that is
that antibiotics only work on bacteria,
not on mold, not on fungus. And when you
take an antibiotic for bacteria, it
kills off the good bacteria, which is
there to keep the fungus in check. And
this is why a lot of times people will
have an overgrowth of a fungal infection
after they have this antibiotic. Deep
inside of your sinuses, you have these
little tiny hairs. They're called psyia.
And right underneath these hairs, you
have mucous membranes that are probably
swollen if you have mucus. And the
purpose of the mucus is to help clean
out the psyia of any type of debris or
microbial pathogen that's in there. So
you can kind of look at it like a
conveyor belt that's pulling stuff out
of your lungs and it's trying to clean
things up. And when your body detects a
foreign invader, it's going to increase
this thing called histamines, which is
going to create more mucus. That's a
normal defense mechanism. You actually
want that to happen. Many times people
mistakenly do some type of a suppressant
to mucus, right? And it pushes it deeper
into the tissues instead of pulling it
out. So I just really want you to
understand what's happening so you can
do the right thing. And it's usually
something not to worry about. And I'm
going to show you a really good remedy
for this. So, just hang in there. And a
lot of times when you have mucus, it's a
good thing. Your body gets rid of
whatever is in there and then it goes
away. But sometimes it persists because
it becomes too sticky or clogs things up
and now the cilia cannot move and
everything is kind of stuck deep inside.
And then here the person is having a
chronic sinus problem which affects your
sleep. can cause sleep apnea and
breathing problems because now you could
really only breathe through your mouth
when you're sleeping, which is a pain in
the butt. Salt creates what's called an
osmotic shift. What does that mean? It
means that it's pulling water out of
something. And how does it do it?
Through dehydration because remember
that osmotic effect, it sucks the water
out of these microbes. So what it does
to the bacteria and fungus and mold is
it sucks the water out making that
microbe dehydrated. it's dead. Okay.
What it does to the mucus is it actually
takes the water out. So then everything
is thinner and it can actually move out
of our bodies a lot easier. The second
thing that salt does is it directly
destroys bacteria, mold, yeast, and
fungus. And the third thing that salt
does in addition to taking the water out
of the mucus, it actually has something
called a mucolytic effect which
basically thins the mucus. breaks it
down, not necessarily just by pulling
the water out, but just by thinning the
mucus directly. And this is why simple
sea salt is one of the best things to
remove mucus from the body. Now, one of
the really interesting things about this
mucus is it's super common to have it
react to mold, some mold growing in your
house. So you really need to get that
checked whether your basement maybe
there was a recent leak in your house
with water and you have mold in there
and not realize that is one of the root
causes of your sinus problem. So here
you are doing the salt flush and it
keeps coming back because the root cause
needs to be identified. Sometimes it
also can be histamines in foods and I'm
going to put a link down below for more
information about that. But the other
really important part of this puzzle is
vitamin D. Vitamin D is one of the most
important nutrients to support the
immune system, especially if you're
predisposed to mold or you're
predisposed to having sinus infections
or lung infections. And because people
don't get enough sun, especially during
the winter, this is why they have more
problems in the winter with their
sinuses than during the summer. One last
thing about food. A lot of times just
eliminating dairy. So many people have a
sensitivity to dairy that that can
create more mucus. So, you also might
want to look at that as being an issue.
If you have a sinus problem that's
chronic, okay, suspect a fungal
infection, the salt's going to help with
that. If you have more of a sinus
problem during the winter, suspect more
of a vitamin D deficiency. And the
amount of vitamin D that you really need
is about 50,000 IUs per day. Get your
vitamin D with K2 and add magnesium so
it can work a little bit better. But I
would take your vitamin D closer to the
evening so when you go to bed at night,
it can work all night long. All right,
so now let's talk about how we're going
to use the salt as a rinse. There's a
couple different ways you can do this.
There's a thing called a nty pot where
you're putting warm water in there and
you can dissolve like a half a teaspoon
of Himalayan sea salt. That's the one
I'm going to recommend. I'm not going to
recommend table salt because table salt
many times has additives. Use a really
high quality Himalayan sea salt. I'm
going to show you this clip of how to do
the nutty pot right here. Check it out.
>> Measure out one cup of the distilled
water. So, I get a little saucepan, turn
it to high, put my nutty pot water in
there, my distilled water in there, and
it only takes a minute or two um to get
it nice and warm. You want it warm about
like a like bath water kind of
temperature. Um just so it's comfortable
for your nose, not too cold, not too
hot, but just right. Um, as you can see,
I use my finger to check and see if it's
ready. So, make sure your hands are
clean if you're doing this and obviously
do it carefully. Next, I will scoop out
1/4 of a teaspoon of the nutty pot salt
placed into the measuring cup and then
pour the warmed water into the measuring
cup. I find that this helps mix the salt
into the water a little faster. I'll
then pour half of that solution into the
nutty pot and I'm ready to go. So to to
set yourself up, you're going to uh tilt
your head to the opposite side. Uh
you're going to put the NY pot into into
your nostril and then lift your elbow
up. As you can see, it kind of creates
an incline from my elbow all the way
down as in the water's coming out. And
you're just going to let it flow. That's
kind of my catchphrase. You want to keep
your mouth open so you can breathe while
you're doing the netty pot. And you just
try to relax into it. Once you've
allowed all the water to empty out,
you're going to give it a good blow. And
I use a cloth napkin also to just kind
of get the extra out and you're on to
the next side. So basically transfer the
last half cup of water into the nutty
pot and follow the same steps. We're
going to tilt our head, place the nutty
pot into your nostril, lift your elbow
up, make that incline, and let it flow
once again.
>> Okay. Another little addition that I
highly recommend if this is a big
problem or it's chronic or it's more
severe is to take a Q-tip and put a
little garlic oil like I'm just talking
a few drops on the Q-tip and go inside
each nostril and just spread it to
create a powerful anti-athogenic effect.
Garlic is hands down one of the best
antiviral, antifungal, anti- yeast,
anti-mold. It's considered like a
natural antibiotic. The third thing you
can do is just get a pot of water, okay?
And in the water, you dissolve some
salt. I might recommend just like one
tablespoon of sea salt and dissolve it
in there and let the steam come up to
your sinuses with a towel over your head
and just breathe the steam inside the
sinuses slowly and let it out. You'll
have these ion particles in the air from
the salty water. It'll get in there and
it'll start to break down the mucus.
There's many other ways you can do this.
There's a salt diffuser you can buy. I
think the name for that is called an
aloe generator, but that's more
expensive and it's really not needed.
That's an option. Another couple things
I would highly recommend that you drink
and consume are apple cider vinegar
three times a day. Not straight, but
just take a tablespoon and some water.
Okay? Drink it down three times a day.
This is going to acidify the body. This
stimulates the macrofasages of the
immune system and helps to remove mucus.
That's one tablespoon and a glass of
water before meals or just three times a
day. Don't forget to inspect your house
for mold. There's different home tests
that you can do, especially if you
haven't cleaned your vents in many, many
years, okay? Cuz that could be a hidden
source of a lot of pathogens. The other
thing I'd highly recommend is you want
to cut out all sugar and starch because
guess what? Fungus and mold love refined
carbohydrates. So, cut that off and then
you won't be continuing to feed these
microbes. And I would also recommend
avoiding any dairy as well. All right.
Now that you have the remedy for your
sinuses, I have a free download that I
want to give to you. This free download
is my daily routine in a checklist. This
is a routine that I use every day to
feel like I'm 18 years old even though
I'm 60 years old. And I want to give it
to you for free. And so, there's a
little link down below. Click it and
definitely download that. And since
we're on the topic of sinuses, I have
another video for you that I highly
recommend you watch to get all the
information on how to deal with not just
mucus in your sinus, but in your lungs
as well. And I put that video right up
here. Check it out.
