Let's talk about the number one mistake
people make when they're trying to grow
their muscles. In fact, I'm going to
show you actually five more mistakes
that are equally as bad as the first
one. This video is especially for those
people that are putting in all this
effort, but you're not really seeing a
lot of results. But I do want to mention
up front, personally, I am not trying to
build my muscles any bigger than they
are. I'm 61 years old. I'm 195 pounds. I
want to maintain my muscles, but because
of my massive arthritic joints from
earlier, making mistakes, injuring
myself, my main goal right now is
cardiovascular fitness as well as
flexibility and resiliency in my joints.
The data I'm going to share with you is
the absolute best information that you
need to know from the top people in the
area of natural bodybuilding and
especially those who are not doing
steroids. Mistake number one, you are
not training hard enough. There is a lot
of research on this and the great
majority of people who think that
they're training hard enough are not
even close to where they should be. So
to make a muscle grow, there's a certain
threshold of intensity that you must
reach to be able to get that muscle to
adapt and get bigger. And so the term
for this is called proximity to failure.
How close to failure can you get? So,
let me just contrast this to what most
people do. They do three sets of 10
reps. Okay, that's their workout. And
so, the problem is, how do you know how
much weight to put on the machine or a
barbell to be able to do this? So, let's
say, for example, you do 10 reps, okay?
And it's starting to get difficult. It's
uncomfortable. And then at the 11th rep,
it starts slowing you down. Then we do
one more rep, number 12, and now it's
starting to really grind, right? But at
13, it's physically impossible to
complete that rep. This is where you
need to be at the end of your reps.
Right here, between 12 and 13. This is
where all of the gains occur right here.
But what do most people do? They quit
here and then they compensate with more
volume, never getting to the intensity
to create the adaptation of the muscle.
Here's what I recommend you do, okay?
Don't have a preset number of reps in a
particular set at first. You might
guesstimate how many you can do, but you
really want to go to almost failure.
Okay? And when I mean almost is you're
grinding and you could barely actually
complete that rep. So once you've done
that, this is what I recommend. You wait
10 to 15 seconds. Okay? That's your
rest. Are you recharging fully?
Absolutely not. you're probably
recharging 10 to 15%. Okay? Then you
pick up that weight again and maybe
you're able to do two, maybe four more
and you're going to complete failure.
Then you rest for an additional 10 to 15
seconds.
Not 2 minutes, 10 to 15 seconds. Pick up
the weight again. Maybe you could do
one, maybe two more. So now we're really
giving that muscle the intensity it
needs to adapt. And I would not count
these as additional sets. I would count
them as a part of this one set right
here because you're really not resting
too much in between. All you're doing is
you're pausing to give your body a
little reset to be able to squeeze out
some more injury or more intensity to
that muscle. And it really has to do
with differentiating
uncomfortableness until you say, "I
can't do anymore." Now, that being said,
if you overdo this, you can really spike
cortisol. Okay, that's the stress
hormone. We don't want to jack up the
adrenal glands too much and create too
much cortisol. So, what I'm going to
recommend, especially if you're starting
out, do no more than two sets of this
per muscle group. I'm talking about
within a workout. Okay? Now, as you
adapt and you get stronger over time,
maybe go to three sets. But because
you're going so intense, you want to
make sure you don't overdo it.
Especially when we come into the mistake
number two, okay, which involves parts
of your body not recovering. Your
muscles usually will recover between 48
and 72 hours. That's two or three days.
Okay? But did you know that the
connective tissue, I'm talking about
your tendons, the fascia that surrounds
everything, take a lot longer to
recover. In a day, if you're lucky,
it'll recover between 0.5 and 2%.
Now, let's take a look at your nervous
system. The nervous system takes at
least 5 to 10 days of recovery after
this intense workout. And then if we're
talking about hormones, we're looking at
between three and five days it would
take to recover after an intense
workout. Do you see the problem? The
problem is most people are focused on
growing their muscles and they're not
really looking at the recovery aspects
of the other parts of your body. It
doesn't make any sense to build up your
muscles to end up creating a tear in a
tendon and now you can't work out
because you're injured. So, how do we
overcome this highintensity workout with
trying to recover all of our tissues at
the same time? Okay. Well, couple ways.
Some of you might have heard of Arnold
Schwarzenegger and he trained six days a
week and I'm talking about two and a
half hours in the gym every single day.
How could he possibly do that? Well,
steroids. Now, back when he was doing
steroids, it probably doesn't compare
with the steroids that they're doing
now. However, when you take steroids for
bodybuilding, there also is a benefit
from those steroids, which by the way,
I'm not recommending these, but there is
a benefit because your assimilation and
using of these amino acids to build more
muscles is accelerated, but also the
repair and rejuvenation of your tendons,
your cartilage is much shorter than if
you weren't on steroids. It has
anti-inflammatory properties, not to
mention growth hormone properties. And
this is exactly why Arnold
Schwarzenegger was able to work out two
and a half hours a day for six days in a
row. If you take a natural bodybuilder
that's not on steroids, they're not able
to do it. They would overtrain because
they don't have the recovery. I'm going
to recommend you don't work out two and
a half hours at the gym. That's going to
be overtraining. Okay. What I would
recommend is you only work out between
30 and 45 minutes. And when we're
talking about a muscle group, I would
only work that one muscle group one to
two times per week, okay? Not even three
to four times a week because we're
trying to bring our cortisol down to
allow more recovery for the connective
tissue, the nervous system, and the
hormones. You have to realize the
benefit from exercise occurs in the
recovery phase when you are sleeping
mostly. And so on one hand we want to
create the messages for your muscle to
grow bigger by using this but on the
other hand we have to be very careful
about not overtraining. Now a couple
other points that I want to bring out.
It's going to be really important to
keep your cortisol as low as possible.
So on the off days or even on the days
that you're working out, going for a
long walk in nature, super important.
Hyperfocusing on your sleep, super
important. Making sure your diet is
really rich in vitamins and minerals.
And then every four to six weeks, I
would take an entire week and do very,
very light weights and not even do this
right here. That way, we de load some of
the excess stress that could be
accumulating. So, a lot of people ask
me, "What supplements do I recommend?"
Now, of course, I'm not biased of my own
high-quality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg
supplements, you'll find more
information. Okay, next mistake is carb
loading. A lot of bodybuilders carb
load. They're increasing carbohydrates
for several reasons. First of all, carb
loading will retain water. It'll make
your muscles look bigger. They
definitely do this before a bodybuilding
competition, but also carbohydrates
stimulate insulin. Insulin makes things
get bigger. But the catch22 is that when
you chronically stimulate insulin over a
period of time, you develop insulin
resistance and then comes the problem.
Where's the problem? You start noticing
your midsection starts getting bigger.
You start getting a fatty liver and then
you start getting a rounder face. So, if
you're trying to build muscle, I'm not
telling you to completely go down to
zero carbs, but keep them at 50 grams
per day. And maybe you get those carbs
through berries and things like that
versus the grains, which create
inflammation in the gut, which then
creates other problems because you don't
want to be inflamed when you're trying
to grow muscle. After dinner, having no
snacks until the next day gives you a
nice fasting period. Fasting is a very
powerful stimulator of growth hormone.
So, it's good not to eat constantly and
snack through the day. There's a natural
bodybuilder named Ron Williams, the most
winning natural bodybuilder in history.
I'll put his link down below. He didn't
eat a lot of refined sugars. He would
never just eat carbs alone. He would
actually combine fat, protein, and then
some carbs to blunt the blood sugar
spike. Now, these last three mistakes
are from Ron Williams, who by the way
won over 250 natural bodybuilding
competitions. Seventime Mr. Natural
Universe, seventime natural Olympia
champion, seventime Mr. Natural World.
He was also inducted into the
International Natural Bodybuilding Hall
of Fame. And his definition of natural
was extreme. He wouldn't even take
creatine. Number four, training blind.
Ron took his time to really study his
own body. He mapped out every single
zone and assigned specific exercises for
each. Most people follow a generic
program that they got from a book or
something and they wonder why they don't
have the physique that they want because
they're not training for their specific
body or improving their weaknesses or
their gaps. So, I'd highly recommend
subscribing to his channel. I'll put his
link down below and you can learn a lot
of his techniques. He gives them out for
free. But I really like his data.
Mistake number five, and I've already
talked a little bit about this hostile
recovery environment. Ron emphasized
that 80% of all diseases are rooted in
stress and inflammation. And I think
it's pretty close to that. Think about
it. Stress and inflammation are
connected with that hormone cortisol.
That's the stress hormone. When you're
doing all this right and you have
chronic stress from other things related
to other parts of your life, then that
kind of nullifies your gains. And then
the last one is obsessing over protein
timing over quality. You see this across
the board. People want to know, okay,
what time do I eat this protein? What's
major is the quality of protein that
you're eating in the day. And I'm
talking about the protein powders which
is filled with maltodextrin which is a
hidden sugar thinking that oh I'm gonna
get more protein I'm gonna get more
muscle not based on Ron's observation in
the 2025 meta analysis in the journal
nutrients they found no significant
difference in muscle growth between
people who consumed protein immediately
after a training versus hours later. Ron
also recommended eating nutrient-dense
foods. And when I talk about nutrients,
some really key nutrients come to the
surface of that conversation. Number
one, magnesium. You can't build muscle
without magnesium. So, that's really
important. Zinc is very important for
testosterone, which also helps increase
muscle mass. You also have potassium,
which is really important with the
activation of the nervous system
connecting to the muscle. And I would
not recommend consuming protein right
before a workout. I just gave you six
huge mistakes relating to this topic
right here. If you have not seen my
other video on how to grow muscles that
got over a million views, you should
check it out. I put it up right here.
