the best way to detoxify your liver.
People automatically think, "Oh, it's
too much alcohol or it's too much sugar
or something like that." Well, that
doesn't even compare to what's really
destroying the liver. You're exposed to
this every single day. And there's
really only one way to fix it. This
entire topic is based on one piece of
information. Pesticides, insecticides,
herbicides, fungicides, plastics,
forever chemicals. All of this toxicity
mimics estrogen. What? Mimics estrogen.
This is a cell. This hormone estrogen
receptor is very very different than
other hormone receptors. All these other
environmental toxins can fit into that
estrogen receptor and activate the
estrogen effect in certain parts of your
body. What's really happening on a
global scale is we're creating estrogen
dominance. Let's take a look at what
happens when that estrogen receptor gets
too triggered. Okay, in the liver,
you're not going to produce as much
bile. And bile is like the key thing to
help eliminate the toxins and the
chemicals. If you don't have enough
bile, the chemicals get recycled. This
can lead to a inflamed liver, fatty
liver, cerosis. Let's talk about the
breast tissue. That has estrogen
receptors, too. We're dealing with the
increased risk of breast cancer, not
from actual estrogen, but from chemicals
that can fit into the estrogen receptor.
There's estrogen receptors in the
uterus. It can also affect fertility and
definitely it affects the menstrual
cycle. Then you have receptors in your
thyroid and this is a classic situation
where you're developing hypothyroidism
from the estrogen that goes into the
thyroid. And by the way, too much
estrogen equals too much fat, especially
around the hips and even increased uh
breast tissue in men. Your skin has
receptors for estrogen. These toxins
activate estrogen receptors which
increase acne and there's receptors in
the testes too. So that's going to
decrease testosterone. It's going to
decrease uh sperm count. And also when
they talk about post-menopausal females
that are estrogen dominant, do you
really think that's coming from
estrogen? What happens is they're
getting accumulation of this toxicity
which is activating the estrogen
receptors giving them the illusion that
they have too much estrogen when in
reality they have too many toxins. So
the name of these toxins that act like
estrogen in the environment they're
called xeno estrogens. If there's a
spill of a certain chemical in a lake
you get this feminization of fish males
turning to females. And so these
chemicals affect animals and humans.
Young girls are going through their uh
puberty a lot earlier. Young boys have
lower testosterone and lower sperm
count. So luckily our liver is equipped
with an entire detox machine to get rid
of these chemicals, but only if it's not
overloaded. Well, I'm going to share
with you right now what I think is the
only solution to this problem. In
addition to, of course, avoiding these
chemicals as much as you can, but you
cannot 100% avoid these chemicals. You
want to support the liver's ability to
detoxify. You're turning fats soluble
chemicals, and that's what these are,
into water soluble chemicals, and it's
in a group of vegetables called
cruciferous vegetables. Pruciferous
vegetables like kale, broccoli, Brussels
sprouts, arugula, cauliflower all
contain chemicals that can help detoxify
these poisons that are mimicking
estrogen. And for those people that
don't like a lot of vegetables, you can
get a concentrated version of the
chemicals that are needed in something
called DIM, DIM. DIM is basically a
concentrated cruciferous extract that
can help regulate the excess of the
harmful estrogen and convert that into
something that's a lot less toxic. And
this is why a lot of people take DIM as
a supplement. But you don't need to even
take that. You can eat the food that it
comes from, which is cruciferous
vegetables. Even one phytonutrient
called sulfurophane in broccoli sprouts,
it's in radishes, has the capacity to
increase over 200 detox genes and also
feed the gut bacteria that can help you
detoxify these chemicals too. Now, in
the liver, there's a certain protein and
it's called sex hormone binding
globulin. We want more of that to
safeguard and protect you against the
excess of estrogen in the body,
especially to prevent cancer. Well, it
just so happens that cruciferous
vegetables have certain things in them
to help increase that sex hormone
binding globulin. And also the
phytonutrients, including DIM, have the
ability to reduce certain enzymes to
decrease the conversion of testosterone
into estrogen. But unfortunately, our
bodies never evolved to deal with these
environmental estrogen toxins. But our
liver was designed to deal with plant
estrogens, which can actually help us,
and they're in the cruciferous
vegetables. They're not going to
actually increase the estrogen in your
body. What they're going to do is help
dismantle the chemicals that are
mimicking the estrogen. So, you have a
couple options. Consuming more
cruciferous vegetables in your diet. You
can take DIM as a supplement. There's a
couple other things that are really good
for the liver, especially when dealing
with this toxicity. A supplement called
NAC, which is really good for the liver
and also the brain. Choline is another
one that will also help you get rid of
fat off the liver. So, the reason why
this video is so important is number one
to give you the awareness of something
unfortunately that it's almost
impossible to avoid, which is the
problem, but yet at the same time, I
gave you a solution just within your
diet. It doesn't have to be every day,
you know, a few times a week. So, at the
very least, you can reduce the load of
estrogenic things that are hitting your
liver on a daily basis. And for
additional information on how to get rid
of forever chemicals and plastics, you
might want to watch this video right
here.
