Dr. Berg back again. Today we're going
to talk about the real benefit of
collagen that people are not talking
about probably because they don't know.
But this information is quite
fascinating because most people take
collagen for their hair, for their skin,
for their nails, for their joints, to
prevent wrinkles, to make themselves
more beautiful. But the real purpose of
collagen has nothing to do with beauty.
But today we're going to talk about what
that real purpose is. Let me first give
you just a little background on
collagen. A long time ago, our ancestors
lived very differently than we do in
modern times. We ate nose totail. We ate
the organ meats, the bone marrow, and a
lot of this also boiled down the
cartilage in different knuckle joints
and within chicken bones. We made
various stews. If we take a look at all
of our protein in our body, 30% of it is
collagen, which is a different type of
protein. Collagen makes up all the
connective tissue, which includes the
glue that holds everything together,
includes the tendons, the ligaments, the
cartilage, the fashcia, which is like
surrounding everything that holds
everything together that gives you your
shape. A good portion of your bones are
collagen as well. But in modern times,
like right now, we like tender meat.
That means meat without very much
collagen. We like lean chicken breast,
right? We don't like tough meat. So, our
diets right now really only have between
1 and 3% of the protein being collagen,
whereas we need 30%.
This sets us up for a big situation
because we're going to be deficient in
one of the key amino acids called
glycine, which I will talk about in just
a bit. The point is that most people are
very deficient in collagen. If we
compare ourselves to our ancestors, when
you are 17 years old, you will have the
most collagen of your entire life.
You're at your optimum state. You can
fall down on the cement and bounce. If I
fell down on the cement right now, I
would literally shatter. But when I was
younger, I got so many different
injuries. I'm surprised that I even
survived those injuries. But as we get
older, let's say you reach the age of 75
years old. You potentially could lose
80% of your collagen. As we get older,
we lose a lot of this collagen. We lose
the connective tissue that holds
everything together. This is why the
skin sags. This is why we get wrinkles.
This is why our joints fall apart. We
become more fragile. So, collagen is
very important. I want to talk about
minor purposes of collagen first and
then I'm going to tell you the big one.
Collagen can act as an antioxidant
because it helps you increase something
called glutathione, which is one of the
main antioxidants in our liver that
helps protect us. It helps us detoxify.
One really cool benefit of collagen is
it will actually help your sleep cycles.
Collagen is also really important in gut
lining repair. To protect against leaky
gut, for example, is a problem. We need
collagen to help repair that because one
of the key amino acids in collagen is
glycine. And glycine not only helps us
detoxify poisons, but it's also
essential in the deeper sleep cycles.
And so, when you don't have enough
glycine, you will have sleeping
problems. But now, let me get into some
really interesting things because people
actually think that if I consume
collagen from food or a collagen powder,
it's going to go in my body and go
directly into my collagen and replace
the collagen that I have or fulfill the
need for collagen. That's not how it
works. The great majority of the
collagen that you get from your diet or
a powder like 90% of it breaks down
through the digestive system gets
absorbed into the blood as amino acids.
So let me just show you something right
here. When we eat protein or we have
collagen, we have a series of amino
acids connected in a chain. And when we
get these smaller chains of individual
amino acids, they're called peptide
chains. A peptide is a chain of amino
acids. And so when you eat collagen, the
great majority of it, 90% of it, breaks
down into the individual amino acids,
but 10% of it actually is left as
peptide chains. Now this is very very
important because peptides are signaling
molecules. It's very very unique
function. Even now when you're consuming
collagen, you only get a small
percentage of these peptide chains. This
is a major role in signaling and telling
your body to repair
and rebuild
the collagen connective tissue. Now, let
me just help you understand this a
little bit more. You're consuming all
this collagen. Most of it, 90% is
breaking down into individual amino
acids. And it goes into a pool of amino
acids. Just like if you were to eat an
egg or a piece of meat, it's all going
into a pool to provide for raw material
to build that muscle tissue or tendon or
hair or nails or even your collagen. But
it's these small peptides that don't get
broken down into the individual amino
acids. They're able to get absorbed into
the gut and go into the bloodstream as
a peptide chain, as a signaling molecule
to command repair in your body. So that
could be repair in your skin tissue.
That could be a repair in your joints.
That could be repair in your gut lining.
That could be repair in your ligaments.
That could be repair in your arteries
because your arteries are also collagen.
And when I'm talking about repairing and
rebuilding, I'm talking about triggering
or stimulating certain genes that
trigger these cells called fibiberblast,
which are basically little cells in your
body that make collagen. They also make
elastin to make things more elastic
because collagen is not bone. It's a
very flexible
tissue, so to speak. And that's the
hallmark of someone that's younger
versus older. They're more flexible.
They're more pliable. They're more
resilient. They're more elastic. Kind of
like a rubber band. And when we lose
that elastin, our tissues become
wrinkled. They become rigid. We look
older. And so, we need both more
collagen and more elastin. And consuming
more collagen not only provides for the
raw material to build it, but these
peptides also provide as a signaling
molecule to tell our body what to do
with this raw material. And what's even
more interesting is if you compare that
to eating a steak or a piece of chicken
or an egg or a fish, you do not get this
signaling molecule. Okay? You don't get
the peptide chain. When you consume
muscle meat, when you consume egg, when
you consume fish, when you consume whey
protein powder, you're only getting the
amino acids. And so, what's so unique
about collagen and what's so different
about it is that you get a very powerful
stimulus of making more collagen, of
repairing collagen, of rebuilding
collagen. And again, I'm talking about
your skin, your nails, your ligaments,
your tendons, fascia, your arteries. The
next question is, how do we get more
collagen? Yes, you could take a collagen
protein powder, but you can also start
eating collagen by consuming more skin
on the chicken or skin on your fish. You
can make different stews where you have
different knuckle joints or cartilage
from chicken in there and start boiling
it down into the gelatin and making
these different stews. Bone marrow is
very high in collagen, but ideally you
want to start doing nose totail. Okay? I
mean, a lot of cultures do this. Uh
chicken feet, they boil them down and
they make these great dishes. When you
consume grass-fed, grass-finished
beef, for example, it's not as tender,
but it's really filled with a lot more
collagen because those animals have more
exercise. They're a lot healthier than
animals that have been put in a feed
lot. They don't get much space. Their
muscle becomes marbleized with fat and
it's super tender beef. Just realize
with that you're getting protein amino
acids, but you're not getting the
collagen that we need for the repair and
the rebuilding process. One of the
things that I do in the morning with my
coffee is I'll put a little cream in
there. I don't put any sugar or anything
like that, but I will put some collagen
powder in there. Mix it up, dissolve it.
It doesn't really give you any extra
taste. It just gives it a more of a
creamy flavor. But that's one way that I
get my collagen. And also, as a side
note, there's other co-actors to allow
this collagen to turn into body tissue
like vitamin C is a very important
co-actor. Biotin, trace minerals, like
copper, really important. So, this is
why it's important to have a wide range
of foods in your diet. And since we're
on this amazing topic of collagen, about
a year ago, I did a video on collagen on
how to create amazing hair, nails, and
skin. And if you haven't seen it, check
it out. I put it up right here.
