The real danger in bread is not the
gluten. I want you to take a piece of
bread, put it in your mouth, start
chewing it, don't swallow it, and keep
chewing for about 30 seconds. What
you're going to notice is all of a
sudden it's going to start tasting
sweet. And it's not a coincidence. Your
body is releasing an enzyme that's
breaking down the starch into sugar. And
this is the part of bread that almost no
one talks about. Bread is mostly starch.
Now, what is starch? Starch is a string
of glucose molecules on a chain. So,
it's really a different type of sugar.
And all you have to do is break down
this chain and it's going to turn into
sugar very fast. Even though on the
label it'll say 0 g of sugar. So, it's
hidden sugar. And also, wheat is in
almost everything people eat. It's in
the morning toast. It's in the lunch
wraps. It's in the pasta dinner. It's in
the crackers people snack on. It's in
the cereals that the kids are eating.
It's on that pizza that you had on
Friday. The so-called healthy granola
bars have wheat in them. An average
American consumes wheat nearly every
single day. One of the biggest problems
with bread is the blood sugar spike. If
we take a look on the glycemic index for
bread, it's 75. And the question is,
what is the glycemic index of sugar? 75.
It's virtually the same. And the
glycemic index is how fast that
carbohydrate spikes the blood sugar. And
on some charts, bread is actually even
higher than sugar. So in other words,
depending on what chart you're using,
when you eat bread, it can actually
create more of a blood sugar spike than
actual sugar. Yet everyone else is
focused on this gluten thing right here.
That's the biggest focus. And so then
that brings up glutenfree
products, right? I see this all the
time. Like that's going to be a lot
healthier. Well, what are they replacing
the wheat with? Potato starch, which is
just as bad as wheat starch, rice flour,
tapioca starch, corn starch. All of
these are industrial starches. These
right here. Okay? It's going to create
the same effect, but without the gluten.
Let me just talk about gluten for a
minute because gluten is the protein in
wheat and humans have a hard time
digesting it. A very small percentage of
the population has a problem with
gluten. But for some people, it can be
very devastating, but it's a small
percentage. It's not the majority. I
would say 90% of the population is not
going to have as much of a problem with
gluten as they are with the starch in
the wheat products. And so it's not just
bread. It's the pasta, the cereal, the
cracker, the biscuits, the waffle, the
pancake, etc. These are metabolic
explosions for blood sugar. But not just
that, it affects the LDL. Now, there's
two types of LDL cholesterol. You have
the type of LDL cholesterol that has
larger particles that don't create
problems for most people. And then you
also have the small dense particle size
LDL that can invade the arteries. When
you consume bread, pasta, cereal
crackers, and other types of starches,
you're going to generate more of the
smaller dense LDL particles, which is
going to create problems for the inside
of your arteries. And because people
consume so much of this stuff, you're
going to generate so much blood sugar,
it's going to start creating a fatty
liver and also create something called
glycation. What does that mean? When you
combine a protein with a starch or sugar
in the presence of heat as in bread that
combines with the protein in your red
blood cells called hemoglobin. What
happens is the sugar is going to connect
to it and it's going to glycate. What
does that mean? It's going to damage the
protein so the protein doesn't work
anymore. That's called glycation. So
when someone checks your blood sugar,
sometimes they do a test called A1C.
What is that? that measures the average
blood sugar over three months. And what
they're really looking at is how much of
that red blood cell is damaged or
glycated. How much of that sugar has
taken over that protein and made it a
problem. So obviously they have it all
rated so you can actually look at that
number and see how bad your blood sugar
is. So a lot of people ask me what
supplements do I recommend? Now, of
course, I'm not biased of my own high
quality supplement line, but if you go
to Amazon and type Dr. Berg supplements,
you'll find more information. So, what
happens? You chew the bread. It starts
to break down the sugar. The sugar is
then going to go into the bloodstream
and raise the blood sugar. Then, what's
going to happen? Insulin is going to
come in there and remove that sugar
very, very fast. The question is, where
does it go? Well, it's going to be put
as storage. It's going to go in your
liver. It's going to go in your gut as
belly fat. Then what happens over a
period of time when you keep spiking
that insulin is the cells start losing
the control of that insulin they become
resistant to that insulin. That's called
insulin resistance. And what that means
is insulin is going to be less
effective. So now the pancreas has to
produce more of it to create that same
effect of lowering the blood sugar. So
when the doctor looks at your blood
sugar being normal, what they don't
really test is the insulin spike, that's
like a massive spike for literally 10 to
15 years, well before you even have a
problem with your blood sugar. Okay? So
pre-diabetes, diabetes happens 10 to 15
to 20 years after this problem has been
brewing in the oven. And so if they were
to check the insulin level, they would
probably find it pretty high. If you
ever get your fasting insulin tested,
you want it between two and six. Okay?
If it's even eight or especially 12, you
already have a problem and you need to
start cutting down not just the sugar in
the diet, but the starch as well, which
now you know it's hidden sugar. And the
other thing about glycation, this is not
just happening in the blood vessels,
okay, in your red blood cells. It's
happening in your skin. It's happening
in the eyes. It's damaging and aging
different parts of your body. It's
damaging your kidneys, the lens of the
eye, the retina. It's making your skin
look older. It's making your joints more
fragile. It's affecting the brain. And
this is why for the majority of the
population, this is not the problem.
Okay? This is the problem for certain
people, but not for the majority. It's
the starch, which is actually hidden
sugar. And then you have people that
say, "Well, I eat whole wheat bread
because it has fiber, and fiber is going
to buffer the blood sugar." Well, let me
just explain something. The difference
between a blood sugar spike of whole
wheat versus refined wheat is so
minimal. This whole idea of whole wheat
is healthier is a myth. It's still 65%
starch. In fact, if you don't believe
me, go ahead and test your blood sugars
before and after. First, sample the
whole wheat and then the next day,
sample refined wheat and look at the
differences. It'll be almost the same.
If you look at the glycemic index, bread
from whole wheat versus bread from
refined wheat, it's basically between 75
and 72.
Nothing of any magnitude to actually
give you more protection. Yet, some
people promote whole wheat as being
something that's healthy. Now, I do want
to pause to talk about those people that
do have a severe allergy to gluten or
even the propensity to get celiac, which
is 1% of the population. Those people
that are susceptible to celiac disease,
which is an autoimmune disease, it can
be devastating if they consume gluten
itself. So, for those people, they need
to avoid anything with gluten, but not
replace it with gluten-free. That's not
a good solution. And then you have other
people that don't tolerate gluten. So
for those people, they need to avoid
gluten because I'm not saying that
gluten is healthy. Just if we compare
the damage from this from an average
person versus the damage between the
starch, this is much higher. And I want
to mention this modern wheat. The modern
wheat is a hybrid. It's been engineered
for more gluten. So, you get that
stretchiness that's in bread, but it
comes with a package because the actual
genetics or the chromosomes for the
modern-day wheat are completely
different than the ancient wheat. And
that's a fascinating topic that I've
done other videos on and I will put a
link down below for you to learn more
about that. But about 1% of the
population has celiac and another 6 to
7% has nonsiliac gluten sensitivity. And
for those people, they need to avoid all
grains, period. Okay? Even the
gluten-free products. This video is for
the 90% of people that don't have a
problem with gluten. So, what if you're
addicted to bread? What if you can't
give up bread? There are a lot of other
recipes that use other ingredients that
are not grains. I will put some links
down below of some recipes that my wife
and I came up with which actually are
quite delicious. In fact, if you cannot
give up bread yet you need a recipe that
tastes almost identical to the bread
that you love, you should watch this
video right here because this is safe.
You can consume it without having to
worry about your blood sugar. Check it
out. I put it up right here.
