Dr. Burke here again. Today we're going
to show you what the shape of your poop
can tell you about your health. We're
also going to talk about the color of
your poop. And I know it's a disgusting
topic, but this is very important
because first of all, everyone poops and
identifying what's going on with your
poop. You can tell what's going on with
your entire digestion way before it
shows up in a blood test. The most
important thing to understand is a stool
sample. Okay? They come like this right
here, these little containers. Okay? You
can see if I open it up, you can see the
stool sample right here. Okay, you can
see this right here. And that's a little
stool sample. That's my first joke.
Don't worry, I'm not going to quit my
day job. Let's first talk about what is
normal poop look like. It looks like
this. It's brown and it's shaped like a
sausage. If the stool is these small
little hard pellets or little balls,
this usually means that the transit time
or the time it took you to digest was a
lot longer because something is wrong
higher up in this digestive tract. Now,
let's talk about if your stool is
softer, uh not really formed that well,
but it's not quite diarrhea. The most
likely reason for this is that you're
missing microbes because the microbes
help you form the stool. And if they're
not there, it's going to be fragmented
and it's going to be soft. It also could
be some food allergies. Anytime your
body has some type of allergy or some
pathogen, food poisoning for example,
your body is going to immediately get
rid of it either with a complete flush
in which case your stool is going to be
liquid or semi-liquid. problem is when
you have diarrhea, it flushes all the
good bacteria out as well. One of the
things that works really good is to
start consuming blackberries with some
kefir or yogurt. You can blend it up to
help put back in the microbes and it
seemed to resolve it pretty quick.
There's one more shape I want to talk
about. It's kind of a thin pencil or a
cigar- shaped stool. If this thinner
stool is present, there's some type of
problem in your colon. Either your colon
is impacted or you have maybe a lot of
polyps or you have some obstruction.
There's something going on in your large
intestine that's causing this thinning
of the stool and that's definitely
something you need to get checked out.
Now, let's get into the colors. The
normal color of stool is brown. The
color of your stool originally came from
red blood cells, but really it's coming
from the bile. Bile is something that is
made by the liver. Bile comes down and
gets stored in this little thing called
the gallbladder right here. And then the
gallbladder concentrates it. And then
when you eat, it squeezes, contracts,
and that bile goes into your small
intestine. Then the pancreas right here
releases an enzyme to help you break it
down further into the tiny particles it
needs to be absorbed. Let's say there's
some type of problem in your liver, like
it's a fatty liver, or you have some
type of thickened sludge that's blocking
this bile. Then what color is the stool
going to be? It's going to look light
colored or gray. And this could be well
before you even notice any problem in
that area. If you look in the toilet and
you notice your stool is floating, then
there's fat in there and it's light
colored. you know, right off the bat
there's some obstruction in the
gallbladder or there's a problem in the
liver. Let's say, for example, there is
bile being produced, but the real
problem is the pancreas. The stool is
going to have a bad odor because it's
not digested. You're going to notice the
stool is greasy. That means there's a
problem with the pancreas. One
possibility could be cancer, but that's
rare. The most likely reason is the
pancreas is just exhausted because it's
been overworking. Now, let's talk about
another color of your stool, black
stool. This usually is more serious
because it means there's blood that has
been oxidized. And so, let's say you had
an ulcer higher up in your digestive
tract or in your stomach, you're
bleeding. And this could also come from
taking some type of NSAID or like
Tylenol or something that can cause uh a
problem in your stomach. There's other
more common causes of black stool. Uh
you just ate a bunch of blueberries or
blackberries. That can do it. Now, let's
talk about red stool. A very common
reason for that is you just ate a lot of
beets because the pigment in beets is
red. Another common cause is that you
have a hemorrhoid because you're seeing
actual blood in the stool. you need
colon sonia root to solve that problem.
If you don't have hemorrhoids, it could
be bleeding somewhere in the large
intestine. It's just something to look
at and rule out things and and figure
out. If you have green stool, usually
it's going to be chlorophyll. You just
ate a bunch of kale or something green
and it's not digested. So, you're
getting that pigment. The next thing I
want to tell you is that it's not normal
to poop every few days. No, you need at
least one to two bowel elimination
events per day. The most important thing
that you can do for your digestive tract
is intermittent fasting. Some people
that fast for three or four or five or
six or seven days and they still have
bowel movements. not as large, but the
body actually is finally getting rid of
stuff. Because the big problem on top of
what you eat is the frequency of
cramming so much food into the pie hole
that your system never has a chance to
reset. A very healthy thing is to start
to skip breakfast and not to snack. Have
two meals a day. It's so therapeutic
because it gives your digestive system a
chance to reset and it gives it relief.
There's another thing you need to know
about in relationship to incomplete
digestion. That usually is a situation
where you don't have enough acid. As we
age, we lose the stomach acid. For that
condition, you need to add more acid to
the stomach. And I would recommend
betane hydrochloride. Take a little bit
and then each day increase it until
those symptoms go away. If we don't have
enough acid, we don't trigger the
gallbladder to release bile. We don't
trigger the pancreas to release its
enzymes. So we end up with incomplete
digestion and that can show up in the
stool. Now that you know more about the
shape of the stool and the color of the
stool, the absolute best video that you
can watch right now is how to make your
own yogurt with aluterai so you can get
levels of like 300 billion per half of a
cup. This is a gamecher. You have to
watch this video. I put it up right
here. Check it out right now.
