your neck pain, your shoulder pain, or
even like your pain in the back part of
your scapula, it's probably not coming
from your spine. How many people have
tried massage therapy, chiropractic with
no results, including myself? In fact, I
went into chiropractic college to try to
fix my shoulder problem and it never
worked. Why? Because I was treating the
symptom. I did not understand the
connection between this area of your
body and the gallbladder. Don't worry,
I'm going to show you a technique to
determine if you have this problem or
not. It'll probably take 30 seconds or
less. But you really need to understand
this connection and how it works.
Been in practice for 30 years, worked on
over 40,000 people. 80% of tightness,
spasm, pain in this whole area. This is
where you might feel it, but it's not
coming from this area. Because the
problem in health care in general is
they don't really look at these
connections. Let me just first answer
the question why your gallbladder or
liver might be creating such problem for
you. The gallbladder is the little sack
that hangs underneath your rib cage and
it has a connection that goes to your
small intestine and also has another
connection or a little tube that goes to
the liver. The liver makes something
called bile that trickles down and then
goes into the gallbladder to make it
really concentrated. So then when you're
ready to eat, it can contract, push the
bile into the small intestine and help
you break down fats. What's the
relationship between bile and this pain
in our right shoulder area right through
here? Bile is made out of cholesterol
and bile salts. If your cholesterol is
very very high and your bile salts are
very very low, you get what's called
gall stones. But there's a very
important stage before you gets to a
gall stone. That is basically bile
sludge and it clogs all the pipes up and
it creates a lot of pressure triggering
the frenic nerve that goes right up into
this side right through in here
referring the pain down through here.
I'm not sure if you can really see this,
but this is the frenic nerve. It goes to
the diaphragm. Right above the
diaphragm, we have something called the
liver. Right through in here, this is
the liver. Underneath the liver, you
have this thing called the gallbladder.
If you look up what the frenic nerve
does in Wikipedia, this controls
breathing because the diaphragm is a
muscle that contracts and it pushes the
lungs up and it brings it down, etc.,
etc. A lot of people also don't realize
this nerve doesn't just control the
diaphragm, it sends sensory signals back
up to the neck through here. So, it's
kind of a two-way flow. And there's
sources that show that this nerve also
connects to the gallbladder, but also
the outer portion of the liver. If
there's any congestion or swelling or
anything that will enlarge the
gallbladder or liver, causing what's
called referred pain in this area. This
problem is so common and it's so easy to
fix, but you can't get it fixed with
surgery, drugs, chiropractic, physical
therapy, or massage. It's a purely
dietary thing, and I'm going to show you
in a little bit how to test for it to
determine if this is your problem, and
you'll know within 30 seconds. In
reality, it's a deficiency of bile. What
causes that? A big one is estrogen
dominance when some women take estrogen
replacement therapy or even birth
control pills. That's one of the causes.
Another cause is medications, especially
statins, antibiotics, and
anti-depressants as well. You can
imagine what that does to your liver. If
the liver is damaged, you can't make
enough bile to prevent this problem. Of
course, other things can cause it as
well. drinking too much alcohol, eating
junk foods, carbohydrates, sugar,
starches, grains. If that's what causes
it, how do you get rid of it? One thing
is eliminating those key things I just
mentioned. But also, there's a very uh
powerful remedy taking bile salts called
Toddka. Toddka will start to thin that
sludge. It helps reduce fat on the
liver, and it's also good for your eyes,
for your brain, and for the pancreas.
But of course, a lot of times it's just
a matter of changing the diet and not
necessarily adding anything except this
one thing called torine. Okay? Because
bio salts are made from torine. Now, the
question is, do you really have this
problem or not? There's a very quick way
to find out. What you're going to be
doing is you're going to be manually
massaging this area to take some of the
congestion out. If this is the reason
why you have a problem, you're going to
feel instant relief on the right neck
and shoulder area or even in your
scapular area in the back or even if you
have pain down the right arm. It's
almost instantaneous. So, what you're
going to do is you're going to take your
hands and you're going to press like
this
up underneath your rib cage
back and forth to the point where you
feel a knot. Okay? Okay. And you're just
going to hold pressure there. And then
you're going to start noticing your
right shoulder and see if it loosens up.
I'd say over 80% of the time you're
going to notice like an instant relief.
Then this will give you an idea that the
root cause is not coming from right
here. It's coming from down here. But
the ultimate correction is changing your
diet. Ultimately, you are going to run
into someone that you know or even
yourself with this problem. And now you
have a very powerful tool. I want you to
tell me down in the comments if it did
work or not for you. Check this out.
This is a textbook, Bile Salts in Health
and Disease, filled with gold
information. Check this out. A long time
ago, they didn't really know what bile
did. He said that bile had no advantage
at all, but the greatest damage results
in it staying for a long time in the
body. That can irritate the internal
lining of the liver that can back up
into the blood and create a lot of
problems. And when it's flowing,
everything is good. But when it's stuck
in the body, everything is bad. It's
also very interesting if you go back to
the ancient Greeks like 500 BC. They
were studying bodily fluids. What was
interesting back then is the bile was
one of the fluids that they used as an
indicator for health or disease. But
they didn't really know what it was
until mid 1800s because at that time
they were able to extract it and
actually use it to clean grease off of
your hand comparable to a detergent or a
soap. Then they had the connection, oh,
it can actually help you break down
fatty foods. You do need enough zinc and
magnesium as co-actors to help you make
bile. But what if you don't have a
problem with this bile thing I just
mentioned? What if you're the 20% that
actually has pain in the neck or the
shoulder? What do you do then? Well, I
have just a video for you right here.
Check it out.
