the vitamin D cover up that was never
corrected. We were told to take 600 IUs
of vitamin D3 and that would be
completely sufficient. And no, this was
not a typo. This was a systemic error
that was exposed in 2014. Yet, it's
still not corrected. And once you
understand who made the error and who
keeps benefiting from keeping it that
way, it'll all make sense. You will no
longer look at this like an error or a
mistake. I mean, just take a look at the
consequence of what's happening right
now. Keeping the vitamin D at 600 IUs to
about a thousand IUs. Doctors will tell
you it's good for bone health. It's good
for your immunity. It's good for overall
well-being. But years ago, when they
evaluated vitamin D, there was a
so-called air that wasn't actually found
initially until several years later. And
I'm not going to go deep into how they
made the air. I'll put a link down below
if you want that information. But the
numbers they were looking at, they
weren't looking at individuals. They
were looking at study averages, making
certain assumptions that everyone
responds the same with vitamin D. That's
like averaging test scores from like 30
classrooms and assuming that every
student passed. But in reality, half the
class is still failing. This so-called
gross air has led to a massive problem
with many people being deficient in
vitamin D, not even connecting their
health problem and their low vitamin D
levels. So what happened in 2014 is two
researchers reanalyze the same data that
the institute of medicine used to set
these RDAs and like I said before they
found that instead of the 600 IUs per
day the real number was actually 8,895
IUs and this recalculation it was
confirmed by other independent research
yet to this day completely ignored. I
want to interject some very disturbing
but important information into this
video right now related to the Institute
of Medicine because I recently read this
book forbidden facts by Gavin Becker and
I want to just summarize a couple very
important things related to this
Institute of Medicine organization. The
organization that we look at as being
the scientific authority that's supposed
to protect us, but we know this private
group is one of the governmental hires
when it needs to prove that a medical
product is safe. But here's the shocking
part that Gavin talks about in his book.
The Institute of Medicine's job is not
really to discover the truth, is to
protect the system. And what I'm going
to tell you is very disturbing. And if
you need to click off or fast forward,
that's totally fine. Before the vaccine
autism investigation, before it began,
the committee said, "We will not
conclude vaccines cause autism." So, the
outcome was predetermined. One of the
best examples how the Institute of
Medicine works is Agent Orange. The
government knew this was toxic in 1969.
Well, number one, they hid the data and
then they hired the Institute of
Medicine. And for decades, the Institute
of Medicine repeatedly issued the same
conclusion. More studies are needed. How
many times do you hear that with so many
different things? Meanwhile, soldiers
are dying, families are suffering, and
the truth is buried. Decades later, an
admiral who ordered the spraying, whose
own son died from it, testified that the
government and industry manipulated or
withheld evidence and the Institute of
Medicine played a key role. Let's take
baby powder and asbestous. 44 years they
were studying it. Johnson and Johnson
admitted to the FDA that their baby
powder contained asbestous. But how long
did the system take to figure this out?
44 years. So this is the Institute of
Medicine's method. Delay long enough for
the problem to fade, victims to age, and
the liability to disappear. Now let's
take silicone breast implants. Billions
paid out and the Institute of Medicine
said perfectly safe overnight. all those
remaining lawsuits evaporated. The power
of the Institute of Medicine stamp is to
protect industry, not people. And when
we look at what the Institute of Health
is doing for vitamin D, it's the exact
same playbook. And if you watch any of
my videos, you understand that vitamin D
is not just for your bones, okay? It's
for the immune regulation. It's for the
muscles. It's for your brain. It's for
your mood. And with low vitamin D, you
can be in a state of depression. It's
for your cognitive function, your
ability to remember and focus and
concentrate. It has a lot of influence
over your metabolic control, your blood
sugars, your ability to lose weight.
Even your risk of cancer goes way up
when you're low in vitamin D. And to
this date, doctors still are going off
these guidelines that are based on this
so-called air from years ago, using this
very tiny number, 600 IUs, for millions
of people. I mean, what's even really
fascinating about this whole story is
after this mistake, if it was truly a
mistake, they would correct it, right?
But not only have they not corrected the
mistake, they double down and they're
actually really insisting that no, that
we're going to keep it like this.
Defending that number, okay, defending
that number, even though they've shown
that the math was wrong. Now, the
Institute of Medicine is now called the
National Academy of Medicine. I mean,
this organization is supposed to be the
gold standard of independent medical
advice. I mean, this is just
mind-blowing. They're not a governmental
agency. They're a private organization.
Okay? They do fundraising. And yes, they
take money from the government, but they
also take it from private donors,
including industry. So we have the same
industry that is setting the RDAs for
vitamin D accepting millions from
Coca-Cola, Nestle, PepsiCa, big pharma
companies, the Sackler family who own
Perdue Pharma. I mean they took over $19
million from the opioid manufacturers
before releasing these pain guidelines
that encouraged wider prescribing. So
the question is not whether they made a
mistake, it's whether they had an
incentive to correct it. But when the
same organizations who write the rules
take money from big food, big drug, you
don't get science. You get something
called compromise consensus. In another
video, I'm going to reveal a leaked
transcript from a meeting that
organization had that mainly talked
about how are they going to control the
narrative on a certain situation. The
vitamin D RDA is not just a statistical
mistake. From my viewpoint, it was
intentional. It was a structural failure
and it hasn't been fixed because the
system that created it doesn't want it
to be fixed. How much sun exposure would
you have to get to get 600 IUs?
Literally 3 minutes in the sun. Okay,
you think that's enough? Not to mention
all the vitamin D resistance that people
have. I've done a lot of videos on that.
The truth is that you need a lot more
vitamin D on a daily basis. Our bodies
were designed to get way more sun than
we do. When the sun hits our skin, it
turns cholesterol in our skin to vitamin
D. But then this goes into our blood as
the inactive vitamin D. And that's what
we test for. So just because you have a
certain amount in your blood doesn't
tell you how much is in your cells.
That's a different vitamin D. They'll
tell you that all you need is 20 nanogs
per milliliter to have sufficient
amounts. And my question is, are you
talking about for bones to prevent
ricketetts? What about if someone has a
therapeutic need like a inflammatory
condition or diabetes or even obesity or
even a fatty liver or even an autoimmune
disease when the average person really
needs almost 9,000 IUs of vitamin D
every day just to maintain your levels
of vitamin D? And if you really look at
all the data, and unfortunately there's
no agreed upon blood level vitamin D
right now, there's all these different
opinions. My viewpoint is you need at
least 50 to 80 nanogs per milliliter of
vitamin D just to potentially make sure
you have enough in the cells. And so
when someone focuses on the toxicity
part, they're completely ignoring the
elephant in the room, which is the
massive deficiency that the majority of
the population has. And the consequences
of that, it is extremely rare to have a
toxicity event with vitamin D3. You'd
have to take hundreds of thousand IUs of
vitamin D3 over months to potentially
get a toxic effect. Really, the only
toxic effect is too much calcium in the
blood. And there's so many other things
you can do to mitigate and reduce that
risk. You can take magnesium. You can
take vitamin K2. You can drink a little
more water, like 2 and 1/2 lers of water
to dilute the urine. So you prevent
kidney stones. You can actually check
your blood for calcium to see if you
have hypercalcemia. The question I have
is if the sun gives you vitamin D and
every cell in your body needs it. Why
are most adults deficient in vitamin D?
And I'm talking about worldwide,
the majority of adults and even kids
nowadays are deficient in vitamin D. And
this is because we built an indoor
inflamed sugar-fed society. And we're
told that you must avoid the sun at all
costs. We're told that 600 IUs is going
to be enough to satisfy you yet
completely ignoring the so-called math
error that was made years ago. So, this
is what I would recommend.
Start getting more sun in the winter or
in the days you don't get enough sun.
Take a vitamin D3. Take it with vitamin
K2 because the vitamin K2 keeps the
calcium from accumulating in the blood.
Also, magnesium is important because
that allows vitamin D3 to really work a
lot better. Vitamin D3 cannot work
without magnesium. Before you leave, I
have a very important free download I
want to give you which actually gives
you my daily routine in a one-pager.
It's a checklist and it's the routine
that helps me feel 18 years old when I'm
actually 60 years old. So, I put a link
down below in the description for you to
download it, print it out, and put it on
your refrigerator. And then what I want
you to do is watch this video right here
on vitamin D and toxicity, so you have
all the information you need to prevent
that.
