I don't eat sugar. Why is my blood sugar
so high? You're doing everything right.
You're giving up sugar. You skipped the
bread. You haven't had a dessert in
quite some time. Yet, you look at your
blood test and it's like, "What's going
on? My blood sugar is high." Your doctor
might even look at you like you're
cheating when you're really not. Let me
show you what's going on. There's one
piece of this puzzle that a lot of
people don't even know about. Most
people think that their blood sugar is a
result of what they eat, right? Sugar,
starches, etc. Yet, that's only half the
story. I want to introduce you to your
liver. Your liver has 500 functions. It
is a filter to help you detoxify, but
your liver is actually a sugar factory.
And so, there's a certain small
percentage of your body that has to have
sugar. Okay? So, even if you don't eat
sugar, these tissues, one is part of the
brain and part of the kidney, and
there's other tissues that literally
depend on sugar. And so if you don't eat
sugar, your liver is going to make it.
And when a person goes on a low sugar
diet or a low carb diet, they're going
to get their fuel from the fat from the
calories they eat as well as the fat
from their own body. And it makes sugar
out of things that are not sugar. Okay?
It'll make sugar out of fat. It'll make
sugar out of protein. And it feeds the
different parts of the tissues. Question
is, why is my blood sugar higher than it
should be? actually you have an off
switch for this sugar. Okay? And the off
switch is basically insulin. If there's
not enough insulin, your liver is going
to be a sugar factory. Now, wait a
second. That's kind of conflicting
information because if I'm not eating
carbohydrates, I'm not going to
stimulate insulin. Insulin's going to go
low. So, then my body is just going to
make a lot of sugar. What normally
happens is this hormone has been abused.
It's been overstimulated for many, many
years, like 10 to 15 years, constantly
raised. And then the cells, because
they're constantly bombarded with so
much insulin, start to ignore this off
switch to the point where you develop
insulin resistance that causes the liver
to think that, oh my gosh, I need to
make more sugar because there's no off
switch. And because that's really
important, I just want to explain it one
more time. The liver is going to make
excessive sugar if you have too much
insulin resistance. And you develop
insulin resistance by consuming a lot of
carbohydrates for a long period of time,
10 to 20 years. And let me just give you
another layer of this problem because
you go to the doctor, they test your
blood sugar, it's normal, yet you're
eating a lot of sugar. How can that be?
Well, insulin is coming in there
cleaning it up and getting it out of the
blood. And that happens for a period of
time. You can eat a lot of sugar for 10
to 20 years and not have diabetes, but
you're going to have high levels of
insulin, but doctors never test that
until one day you develop so much
insulin resistance that insulin now
doesn't work. And you're actually
deficient at insulin. And so now there's
not enough insulin to turn this thing
off. and there's not enough insulin to
clear out all the sugar from the blood.
So now the glucose starts going higher.
What's interesting in a diabetic is 80%
of the sugar in their blood is coming
from this guy right here. This is why
certain medications like me orin for
example,
they address insulin resistance and the
liver and they help the blood sugar but
they have a major side effect because
that medication doesn't fix the cause.
It just manages the symptom. But the
point is if you're not consuming a lot
of sugar, okay, and your glucose is
high, it's either coming from the liver,
okay, because you have insulin
resistance. Don't worry, I'm going to
show you how to fix it because it's
actually pretty easy to fix. Or
you have too much stress because stress
activates this cortisol. Cortisol is a
hormone that will release sugar. So what
happens when someone has too much
cortisol, especially even when they take
cortisol as a medication, prennazone,
you can really jack up the blood sugar
to the point where the person can even
become a diabetic because you're just
releasing so much sugar. Now, one little
piece of this puzzle is that if you wake
up in the morning and test your blood
sugars and it's high, yet you didn't eat
sugar the day before, that is something
called the dawn phenomenon. And that
really is a problem with this right
here. In the morning, right around 8:00,
you have the biggest spike of cortisol.
So, cortisol is contributing to it. In
reality, to have this dawn phenomenon,
chances are you've had insulin
resistance for a long time. Probably
didn't know it because you never checked
your fasting insulin. But if your blood
sugar is high in the morning and you're
not eating sugar, it's the liver. You
have too much insulin resistance in your
liver and there's just no off switch.
So, the body is just making more and
more and more even though you're not
eating sugar. But don't worry, I'm going
to show you exactly how to correct this
because it's actually not hard. But you
really need to understand this mechanism
right I do here. Now if you had a test
called an A1C okay an A1C is an average
of three months of your blood sugar. You
know you can check your blood sugar
periodically and it can be normal but
this looks at the average. So it looks
at everything. And it is true when the
liver starts making sugar, it can
contribute to the sugar and worsen your
A1C a little bit, but usually it's not
going to be that big of a deal because
for a lot of people, they only have
blood sugar issues in the morning. And
if they were just to go for a walk and
burn that off, they can really get rid
of that sugar fast because when they're
walking, they're using up that sugar as
energy. But a much better test is to
check your fasting insulin. You want it
between two and six. You don't even want
it like seven or eight. Okay? That's
kind of like in the risk area. And if
it's like 12 or more, you definitely
have some strong insulin resistance. But
that's a really good test to see kind of
where you're at. Chances are, if you've
had insulin resistance for a long period
of time, your fasting insulin could be,
you know, maybe eight or nine or 10 or
more. And this is why the liver is still
producing sugar because you're not out
of the woods yet. So, how do we fix this
problem? Number one, go on a low carb
diet. That means not just getting rid of
sugars, but starches. Start reading
labels. The maltodextrin, the modified
food starch, those have to go. Number
two, snacking must go bye-bye,
especially at night. I mean, it's really
bizarre to me that someone would need a
meal Okay. And then they would need to
eat an hour and a half later. They just
ate. Why do they need some snack between
a meal? It doesn't even make sense to
me. Well, they're not really hungry.
It's really called a dopamine hunger
where it's not a true hunger. It's more
of like these foods are making you
addicted. If you were to eat at a
Chinese restaurant with a lot of MSG,
rice, things like that, and I know for
me, an hour and a half later, I'm
hungry. Like, am I really hungry? No.
It's actually coming from either a blood
sugar issue or this dopamine thing. This
is why you must not snack between meals.
Have two to three meals. I would
recommend just doing two meals. Skip the
breakfast. Okay? And nothing else in
between those meals. So you eat at 12
and then at 6 right after you eat.
Kitchen is closed.
You must bring with you to the grocery
store a list of foods that does not have
on it any junk foods or snack foods.
Most ultrarocessed foods fall into this
category of snacks. I know this is hard
to believe, but when you go into a
grocery store, they actually have entire
rows of snack foods. I'm not kidding.
They'll have an entire row of chips and
then crackers and then cookies and then
snack bars and all these different
snacks, right? I mean, before the 1970s,
we didn't snack because it would ruin
your appetite. And then all of a sudden,
we got into this five, six meals a day
thing and it just got out of control.
And number three, focus on lowering
stress because that definitely
contributes. Getting a good night's
sleep is going to be essential. Doing
regular walking exercise will help get
rid of stress. Getting actually out in
the sun dramatically reduces stress
versus inside your office where we have
fluorescent lights. And then here's the
thing, you just have to do that for a
longer period of time because to correct
insulin resistance, especially if your
fasting insulin is like above 12, could
take several months before things reset.
How do we heal this resistance? You just
have to stop triggering insulin. We just
have to lower this insulin for a long
enough period of time for these
receptors to normalize again. And for
some people it takes weeks. Some people
it takes months and some people it could
even take over a year. But it will
happen. So if you're not eating sugar
and your blood sugar is high, you're not
crazy. It's a liver problem. And since
we're talking about the liver, you have
to see my other video that I created on
the liver. That's super interesting and
very informative. It's right here. Check
it out.
