This is so wrong. We need to stop this.
The chemical industries are trying to
quietly pass something in a bill that if
they pass this, all lawsuits where
people were harmed or injured from
pesticides will go away. I'm talking
about the harms from pesticides,
insecticides, herbicides, fungicides.
This little section in the bill, it's
called section 453, is so evil, but it's
packaged uh that they're supporting the
farmers. If we don't get rid of the
weeds, you know, we're all going to
starve to death. Just think about
Monsanto. They came up with something
called Roundup Ready, and they had a lot
of people sue them for this glyphosate.
They had to put out $10 billion in
settlement fees. Not to mention, right
now there's over $165,000
cancer lawsuits. If this bill passes,
all the lawsuits going in the future
will go away. This grants legal
immunity, both domestic and foreign. Any
future lawsuits that rely on failure to
warm claims are dismissed. The CEO of
Bear said ongoing Roundup lawsuits may
make it financially unsustainable to
continue to sell Roundup in the US
unless legal immunity is granted rather
than holding the company responsible for
the dangers. You've seen this so many
times where things that are considered
safe and effective and then all of a
sudden they end up to be very very
deadly, right? Well, that has to do with
the similar situation with drugs because
both drugs and these chemicals use this
loophole because they don't have to
publish their studies that turn out
negative. Over 70% of the safety studies
are confidential. They're owned by the
chemical companies. I want to just show
you um what I consider a front group
that was created by Bear. It's called
Modern A Alliance which are creating
grassroots movements to uh make it
appear that everyone's agreeing with
their viewpoint. But I wanted to show
you what it says on their site. They say
when weeds win, we all lose. Glyphosate
is a critical farming tool. Facing
increased demand conditions, modern
agricultural practices are the only way
to effectively secure our food supply.
Glyphosite is the backbone of modern
farming. Cost-effective tool that can be
used safely as directed which keeps
yields high, food prices affordable, and
allows farmers to implement important
conservation practices. Certain groups
within the World Health Organization
have labeled glyphosate as a probable
carcinogen for humans. And a lot of
people are winning these lawsuits from
this cancer link. They're really
spinning this as food security because
if we can't grow food with glyphosate,
then we are all going to starve and
we're going to have a very expensive
food. So, yes, you probably can make
food cheaper with glyphosate,
but at an additional expense because
what about all the other health expenses
that we're going to pay for all the
health problems that that chemical
caused? Now, let's go into a very
important interview with someone who
knows a lot about this topic. Kelly,
thank you so much for coming on. I
really wanted to get your take on this
super important topic. And the first
question I have is what is the
consequence if this bill goes through?
What is the consequence of what's going
to happen to literally the US citizens,
mankind? This is an absolutely
frightening time because what's
happening right now is that if chemical
companies get this total immunity, it
means that they are going to be able to
go out and pollute and make different
types of chemical formulations with
absolutely no recourse whatsoever when
we get sick from um from exposure. And
what that really means is that
particularly with a lot of things that
are going on right now. So let's say
cancer, Parkinson's, ALS, um
infertility, there are a lot of
different diseases that are now starting
to be linked to pesticide exposure like
pretty strongly. The research is there.
The EPA isn't moving on any of it as it
is and they know that people like us are
ready to call them out on it and that is
why this shield is now going to go up to
make sure that we cannot.
>> Wow. Yeah. It's interesting the timing
on this, isn't it? I mean, even like I
think with Bear with Roundup Ready, the
amount of lawsuits, it just
astronomical. So, obviously, they're
probably supporting this heavily because
if they don't, they'll probably have to
dismantle this product Roundup Ready.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And, you know, it's
egregious. So, I I followed the
glyphosate trials in court because I
knew that there'd be a lot of fake news
coming out of that courtroom. Um, and
there was, by the way, because the truth
of the matter is that glyphosate is
continues to be allowed because of all
these lies that perpetually have been
told about this chemical as though that
it's so safe. Bayer knows that its time
is up. Yet, you know, they're unwilling
to just put a cancer label on it and
warn people because actually, they could
continue to sell it if they just put a
cancer label warning on it. They refuse
to do it. instead they would rather
bankrupt their company
>> or make sure that we are unable to sue
for 57,000 different chemicals of
exposure. Like think about that. We are
talking about and it's not just like the
fact that the pollinators are dying or
you know it's just the the damage is so
grotesque and so understated and also so
dismissed as some kind of like hippie oh
you know love the earth kind of
situation. know that person's anti
pesticides. That's crazy. It's
completely impacting our microbiome.
It's impacting our metabolism. It's
impacting our brains. I mean, we are now
the front line of the attack from these
pesticides.
>> It's not just the pesticides, right?
It's herbicides, fungicides,
insecticides, those are also part of
this.
>> That's right. All of those, all of the
sides, you know, all the to kills.
>> So, they would have immunity. So, let's
say this does pass. How hard would it be
to reverse this decision? it would be
incredibly hard. So, historically, let's
say over the last 10 years, there are
certain organizations that are
nonprofits uh that work on behalf of
humankind. And so, they come and they
sue the EPA for egregious behavior. Or,
for example, I'll just use glyphosate
because it's the most used ever. In the
case of glyphosate, actually, the center
for food safety sa sued them, said, "You
aren't looking at all the research. It
shows that it causes cancer." The
federal court ordered the EPA to go and
re-evaluate it. and the EPA just refused
because they're sitting there waiting
for this liability shield to come into
play. And so if this does come in, it is
going to be virtually impossible to
reverse it without some sort of large
call to action where our elected
representatives think that they are not
going to win re-election if they don't
do something to reverse it. But think of
what that is like because we're talking
about massive sums of money that we're
up against here. We are very very tiny
in comparison to this enormous
agricultural chemical lobby and so much
is intertwined because it's not just the
pesticides it's entire our entire
agricultural system like you're talking
about the Roundup ready GMOs. It's the
basis of our agricultural system that
they are trying to defend at the same
time not taking into any account how
frankly directly the farmers and all
people who who like to eat um are
exposed.
I don't know. For some reason, I thought
the EPA stood for Environmental
Protection Agency protecting us, but it
seems to be protecting another group of
big A. I don't know. It's just maybe
it's just me, but uh the roles have
shifted.
>> It's feeling like they were shifted. And
just an anecdote, by the way. So, my
life is basically fighting these
pesticides and and trying to get truth
and transparency on what we're being
exposed to. And last September, I
actually went to the office of
pesticides with a bunch of research on
endocrine disruption, specifically how
glyphosate is found in semen. It is
decreasing testosterone and it has huge
implications for fertility. I went and
presented this in front of the panel,
the office of pesticides at the EPA, and
they should have been shocked. They were
not. They just left. They said, "Thank
you very much." And disappeared. Never
heard anything more. They are completely
when you say that about the EPA, it's
just so amazing because I'm not actually
sure what can be done even to resolve
the fact that they're such a corrupt
institution without completely
dismantling it and then trying to bring
it back again maybe under, you know,
better ethics.
>> Well, I think I have one idea about
that. If we get enough people to fight
back and actually call the
representatives and and make them aware
of this bill and demand that they better
not support it, I think that might help.
What do you think? I would love that so
much. And I think that that is the only
thing that we can do here. We have to be
so loud, like unprecedentedly loud, so
that they know that their job is on the
line if they don't represent what humans
and Americans want.
>> They're appearing to be helping, but
they're really wearing another hat,
unfortunately. So, we're kind of
bypassing that. And we as just
consumers, we need to do something. And
collectively, we can do that. What can
people do
from just a little bit to a lot? This
does not have to take too much time. So
the very first thing you can do is call
your elected representative. So your
senator for your state, your two
senators and your congressperson. You
call them and you tell them you do not
support any language that would provide
chemical companies legal immunity. You
don't want to be poisoned and you are um
this the legislation as it stands now
would protect 57,000 different
chemicals. Okay, so that is like step
one. Call them and tell them no legal
immunity for chemical companies. Period.
Okay, that's the easiest. Second, you
can go to stoppoison.org.
You can sign up there on a form that's
there and I will provide you with all
the call to actions as they come because
we're not just talking about federal
level. Actually, it's happening at the
state level as well.
>> So, you need to know what's happening in
your state. Third, you can go to Stand
for Health Freedom and that's a great
organization that is very active. They
will have a link that you can just click
and easily send an email to your elected
officials. So, there are three different
ways to go about it.
>> Great. I'm going to put all three of
those ways in the description. Please do
something about this if you're watching
this. Spread the word. Everyone needs to
participate. If we all can do something
about it, we can actually defeat this
very, very quickly. we need to because
this is a big deal. This is not a little
thing. It's not something that's gonna
just be affecting us. It'll affect our
generations and uh I don't even know how
this would be undone once it's done. So,
this is like a serious serious situation
that we need to uh take action and I
really appreciate you Kelly doing what
you're doing and um thank you for coming
on as well.
>> Thank you so much for having me and
sharing the word. We can do it.
>> Absolutely. Thank you.
