Dr. Burke here. Today we're going to
talk about how to strengthen your legs.
Now, this is not just a general video on
to make your legs stronger. This has to
do with increasing your longevity, your
legs, and the strength and what they can
do to support you. It's one of the best
indicators to know how long you're going
to live because the legs give you a lot
of early warning signs on what's going
on with more dangerous conditions in
your body. So, this becomes more
relevant the older you are. So, if
you're over 50, you need to be watching
this video. If you're under 50, watch it
as well because you want to know how to
prevent problems and use the legs as a
good way to determine if there's a
problem throughout the body. Let's start
with number one. There's something
called peripheral neuropathy. That's
usually in a situation when you have
diabetes. And what happens with diabetes
is you have this high level of sugar in
the bloodstream that destroys the
vascular system and then also the
nervous system. And this is because high
levels of sugar are toxic. Now, the
reason why people with diabetes start to
get numbness or pain or tingling or
burning in the bottom of their feet
first, sometimes in their fingertips, is
because of this. You have this super
long nerve, and the further that nerve
is away from the heart, the more it's
going to show up as a problem because
it's getting a little less oxygen, blood
flow, and nutrition compared to tissues
that are closer to the heart. When you
have this peripheral neuropathy which is
on the bottom of your feet, you have to
realize what's going on. This is a blood
sugar problem. Probably you have either
pre-diabetes or diabetes. And normally
the body has a very tight control over
blood sugar. Like normal sugar in all of
your blood should only be one teaspoon
of sugar. And if you include all the
starches, you're talking between 50 to
100 teaspoons of sugar, including the
hidden sugar as well that are going
through your body. And so if normal
blood sugar is one teaspoon, you can
imagine what all that sugar is doing to
the arteries and what your body is doing
to remove that sugar. It's removing it
like crazy with a vacuum cleaner called
insulin. And so normal sugar is one
teaspoon, but diabetes
is only two teaspoons of sugar. And so
what does all that mean? It means that
the body doesn't like sugar in the
blood. So it's going to remove it. But
when you have two teaspoons of sugar,
you have a problem with insulin. Either
there's so much resistance with insulin,
it can't really work anymore, or the
pancreas is so exhausted, it's tired, it
can't put out as much insulin, you no
longer have the vacuum cleaner to suck
it out. So the blood sugar goes high and
that is where you get all the artery
problems, okay, that I'm going to be
talking about, especially it's going to
show up in the bottom of your foot. So
too much sugar is like really deadly for
your circulation as well as the nerves.
All right, let's go to number two, ankle
and foot edema. You know, when I'm
traveling somewhere or I'm visiting
somewhere, I always see someone wearing
sandals or even shoes with the bottom of
their foot just being like completely
swollen, and I can see the bottom of
their legs completely puffy, and I want
to walk up to them, but I don't. But
those people have some serious edema
going on. If you were to press into the
ankle, it would leave an indentation and
it would be stuck there. That's called
pitting edema. And that's not a little
thing. That's a big problem. Or they'll
take their socks off and they'll leave
this serious indentation around the
lower legs. Now, what's really bizarre
is I had a version of this. I had
pitting edema in the earlier part of my
life, which is just wild to think that I
had that. But this is indication that
the circulation is so bad that it's
affected the kidney or the liver or the
heart. And we're getting less oxygen to
the bottom of the feet because we're not
able to circulate this blood. It's just
pooling there. And think about how much
stress that puts on the heart. Because
this is how it works. We have the
arterial system, all the arteries that
are pushing blood out to your
extremities, to your fingers and your
toes, okay? Then they get to the end of
this long chain and then they go through
these capillaries, okay? tiny little
blood vessels and then they cross over
into the Venus system and then the Venus
system is the return back up to the
heart but it goes to the lungs gets
reoxygenated and then the cycle happens
again. If at the end of this chain the
bottom of your foot we have pooling of
blood or or fluid that's a backup of the
system. That's a situation where the
heart is working extra hard to push
through that inertia. And so number two
is a really good indicator that you have
a much deeper problem and you should not
ignore it. You should do something about
it. And from my viewpoint, I think you
should do something more natural because
a lot of times what they'll do is
they'll just put you on a blood thinner
and then monitor it. Number three,
restless legs syndrome. What is that?
That's a situation where your legs
become very very restless usually at
night. I had this condition is driving
me crazy. I would get up at, you know,
4:00 in the morning and just have to
pound my legs because they had so much
energy in them. I could not relax. I
couldn't sleep. Little did I know the
diet is responsible for this. If you
consume way too much sugar and starch, I
was doing a lot of ice cream. I was
doing alcohol at the time. What happens
is it really depletes certain vitamins
and it actually causes you to build up
too much lactic acid which creates kind
of a cramping sensation and just a lack
of circulation. Little did I know
there's a couple remedies for this.
Number one, change your diet, but the
other thing is to take vitamin B1. B1 is
a great solution. Also, magnesium. Both
of those in combination counter the
effect of this high sugar diet. But you
have to realize what created the
deficiency in the first place would be
one of magnesium. It was the high
refined carbohydrate diet. So both of
those actions change a diet and take
this nutrition to resolve this. The
problem with restless leg syndrome is
that it keeps you up and it keeps you
from sleeping. And that lack of sleeping
shortens your lifespan. There's a
massive connection with a lack of sleep
increasing your risk of heart attacks,
strokes. It puts you at risk for
diabetes because it increases cortisol.
Other than that, you're totally fine
with number three. Let's talk about
number four, deep vein thrombosis.
Thrombosis is like a blood clot. One of
the dangers for this is a clot breaking
off from your legs and going up into the
lungs. That's not good. It can actually
kill you. Over 90 to 95% of all heart
attacks and strokes are a clot more than
this plaquing that builds up in the
arteries. So, this is something to pay
attention to and it's something that's
really important because there's certain
things in your body that will increase
your risk of getting a clot and I'm
going to cover those in the second part
of this. But two things, stress and then
we come back to this high carbohydrate
diet again. Let's go to number five.
Peripheral artery disease. This is
artery disease that is not necessarily
around the heart. It's in other places
in your body too. And so we have
aosclerosis,
hearting of the arteries that go beyond
just like the coronary artery of your
heart. And I'm going to get into a bit
more on what to do about that. But the
inside of your artery has this single
layer cell called the endothelial layer
of tissue and it's a very key important
tissue to keep healthy because if you
don't it's going to create a
constriction. You can create harding of
the arteries. You're going to create
arteries that are more rigid. You're
going to start creating inflammation and
then the body's going to come in with a
band-aid and try to heal it with
plaquing. That's the band-aid in there.
But also the bigger issue is the clot
formation and that can actually break
off, go into the brain and create a
stroke. So a lot more people die of
clots. But with this situation, we're
talking about more plaquing. Let's go to
number six, chronic venus insufficiency.
When we're talking about the veins,
we're talking about a uh pooling of
blood in the veins. A lot of times this
is associated with being sedentary, not
able to get out there and exercise
because the thing about the veins is
that you need muscular movement to get
that blood back up to the heart. And so
many people are not moving enough and so
the Venus system is insufficient. It's
stagnant blood that puts more pressure
on the heart because the heart has to
work harder to push this blood. And one
interesting thing about this is that
you'll see in the lower part of the legs
and the ankles, this discoloration,
there'll be different like little spots.
You'll see more of a browning effect.
You'll see hair loss. You'll see thinner
skin. You're going to definitely see
pitting edema. But what's happening is
we're getting a lack of oxygen in the
lower part of the legs. And this can
shorten your lifespan. Okay. And then
number seven, we get sarcopenia. This is
age related muscle loss. It's one of the
top predictors of mortality when you get
older just by losing muscle because your
muscle is a very important metabolic
organ. You have a lot of mitochondria.
That's the energy factories in there. It
helps you burn off sugar. And so when
you lose this muscle, you lose a very
important buffer for living longer. And
so this is a combination of of course
aging, poor diet, lack of the co-actors,
especially magnesium and vitamin D and
zinc, but also having more of a
sedentary lifestyle. But it's a
combination of animal protein and
exercise that helps you retain and
maintain muscle. But I'm telling you, as
you get older,
you should learn from the mistakes of
others and do whatever you can to
maintain a consistent exercise program
as you get older and have a goal of
becoming more fit every single year
because you're going up against aging.
But what you want to do is you want to
build up like a buffer or an extra
reserve of fitness that will compensate
for this aging process that everyone has
to go through and hopefully maintain as
much muscle as you possibly can as you
age. Let's first talk about type 2
diabetes. That's relating to that
peripheral neuropathy that I talked
about, but it's also related to a lot of
the other things that I talked about
because the more problems you have with
your blood sugar, the more you're going
to have problems with the inside of your
arteries. And it's just bizarre to me
that when you go to the doctor and you
get diagnosed with diabetes, you are not
instantly told
to get on a low carb diet. Instead,
you're told, "We're going to manage your
blood sugar, and we're even going to
give you some glucose pills. If your
blood sugar goes too low, you take these
sugar pills to maintain it." So, it's
all about managing the downstream
effects of this underlying root cause,
which is basically eating too many
carbs. I mean, I don't want to get
sidetracked, but I will say that I don't
know if this is intentional. It probably
is. Everything in medicine is so siloed.
It's so intentionally keeping the cause
and effect relationship from being found
out about or hidden. We silo doctors.
They're highly specialized in this and
this and this, but we're not connecting
the dots between those silos. The whole
system is set up not to look at root
causes. They don't look at lifestyle
factors. They're managing the downstream
effects. And even in research, right,
everything is like, well, there's an
association. They can't be too positive
on this causes this, or they'll say,
let's do a screening for early detection
so then we can get you on medications
earlier. There's really no prevention
going on, unfortunately. But with type
two diabetes, you must attempt to go on
a low carb diet and do intermittent
fasting, two meals a day or even one
meal a day. Why? Because there is
hardcore research to show that you can
reverse type 2 diabetes in 10 weeks if
you go low carb. But that's only one
thing you can improve. You can also
improve fatty liver. You can improve
your arterial system. You can improve
the circulation of your legs. And
definitely this peripheral neuropathy.
two remedies that I recommend if you
have peripheral neuropathy which will
actually help heal the nerves on the
bottom of your foot or the fingertips.
Benotamine is one. If you buy some
benotamine, just take four pills spread
out through the day. It works like a
charm. And then alphalapoic acid. Both
of these are miraculous as far as
helping you reverse peripheral
neuropathy. Now, of course, you want to
get to the root cause, too. You want to
fix the diet as well. Let's talk about
the lymph system and the veins. So, most
people that are sedentary are going to
get a pooling of fluid in the lower
extremities in their legs because the
heart doesn't necessarily push the Venus
supply that happens with exercise or
movement, but there's a really cool
muscle. It's called the solius. That's
part of the calf muscle. This muscle is
very, very unique. And there's a
gentleman who actually came up with the
solius push-up. This is something that
anyone can do, especially if they're
sedentary or they do a lot of sitting at
the computer. You could literally do a
soius push-up and create dramatic
effects on your blood sugars and also on
your circulation because you can
actually push the blood back up to the
heart and take the stress off the heart.
So, it's like a second heart in your
calf. What's unique about this muscle,
the solius, is it doesn't get tired. It
has incredible endurance. It's very
efficient. And I highly recommend you do
it when you're sitting. I'm going to
show you a video right now more on the
person who actually developed this so
you can understand how to do it. I want
you to picture your ankle joint.
Sometimes this is where it's good to to
have a friend who might put their their
hand both on the top of the foot and on
the front of the ankle, right where the
ankle is straightening up. So if you
picture the foot and the ankle coming
together, what you're really doing is
you're just straightening that joint.
You're straightening it out. And so
that's the motion that you should think
about. Okay? That'll help you avoid a
lot of mistakes that we'll talk about
later that I see some doctors putting
videos up for their patients are doing
incorrectly. All right? So the next
point is that as you do that, picture
that you're lightly pressing against the
ball of the foot, which is where the
toes insert into the foot, that that MTP
joint. Just press lightly as that as
you're straightening up that ankle.
That's a good thing. You don't want to
press too hard, otherwise you you'll
start to to use your upper leg muscles.
We want all of these muscles in the
thigh completely relaxed.
Then the next point is that you want to
do a smooth dynamic motion. The rate can
vary quite a bit. The but what we we
really want to think about is move it
such that you're going in a fluid motion
like I'm doing here with my leg. It's
just going up and down, up and down.
Very smooth fluid motion. Okay? Don't
jerk it. Okay? You don't need to jerk
and pause. Again, there's some some
points that that we'll talk about later.
One last thing I want to mention about
the muscles. Your muscles in a rest
position only consume 15% of the energy.
Your brain consumes 20% of the energy in
a resting state. And so if you're more
sedentary and you're eating a good
amount of calories and you're thinking,
"Oh, my muscles are going to burn these
off." It's only going to just tap into a
small percentage of that energy. Well,
15%. This is why it's so important to
exercise on a regular consistent basis.
Let's talk about sarcopenia for a
second. This is a condition as you get
older where the muscles start getting
smaller and smaller and smaller and you
get weaker and weaker. There's a
interesting test. It's called the
sitting rising test and uh I'm going to
show you a video on this in a second,
but this is a test that's linked into
longevity. And after you watch the
video, I'm going to see if you can do
this. I would recommend doing it on a
surface that's not too slippery, but
you're basically going to go down on a
sitting position and then you're going
to try to stand up without using your
arms. So, let me just show you how to do
that right now. However, is there value
to being more graceful on getting up off
of the floor? Absolutely. It's an
indicator of having good just strength
in general, but especially your core and
hip strength. So, here's what they
recommend. And I'll just kind of show
you is a starting point to get up off
the floor without using your hands or
coming up to your knees, criss-cross the
legs, and can you just sit down first?
How far can you sit down? Can you come
up here? And then what they want you to
be able to do is can you cross under?
And then maybe give a little bit of a
push or a little bit of a swing forward,
but can you come up there without using
your hands? So, let's tackle that part
first. If that's a complete chore for
you, probably just practice just squats.
How far can you take your squat down?
Can you go into um what they call an
Asian squat? Sit down real deep in
through here. Maybe keep your hands and
your knees connected. I like to push my
hips back. This is a good It looks
weird. It looks kind of wild and crazy,
but that's something nice to have uh
help with that hip mobility, but just
doing squats here. Maybe you find boxes,
maybe a little uh yoga block, maybe you
find a book. Can you just practice
sitting on something just a little bit
elevated? Keep your chest up and then
come up there. So, these are ways that
you can practice just that uh basic
squat position. And you saw that I did
what they call the pistol squat or the
single leg squat. You just get a chair
and just practice a how far down can I
go and then come up if you want to do
that single leg uh version of it right
there. Next, I've got what are called
hip switches. These help with some
finesse, some agility, and some mobility
in the hips. First option one, just lean
back. You want to get in through here,
back and forth. They kind of look like a
little windshield wiper movement in
here. to get this. Just think
um kind of have your knees bent and then
just fall one way. Let both knees go
this way here and then let both knees go
this way here. So you can use your hands
for support behind you. You can try to
uh excel past or progress past without
using your hands. And then finally maybe
you can try to keep a little bit more
upright. So don't bend through here.
Keep more upright. And then do it here.
And then here, for anybody who, you know
what, I don't necessarily need to be
able to get up without using my hands,
but maybe I could get to a knee and then
come up. What you can do is keep that
momentum going. We're here. And then
come up here. Now, if you haven't
already tried this test, put it on pause
and go ahead and try it right now. And
then comment down below if you're able
to do it or not. Let's talk about edema
for a second. I talked about that being
a kidney problem, a liver problem, or a
heart problem. You basically have a
situation where the blood is pooling in
the lower part of your body and you
desperately need to push that back up
with the solius pushup as well as
walking and exercising. But don't forget
potassium. Potassium has a fantastic way
of offsetting sodium and pushing fluid
out. It's a natural diuretic and we need
like 4700
milligrams of potassium every single
day. Rarely does anyone get that much.
It's a myth that potassium is bad for
the kidneys. What is true is if you have
late stage kidney disease, you should
get with your doctor before you start
taking any magnesium. But if you don't
have advanced kidney disease, taking
more potassium or even normal amounts of
potassium, an electrolyte powder can
actually push out a good amount of this
fluid. But also go on low carb, do
intermittent fasting because
carbohydrates are one big cause of this
as well. So many people that go on a low
carb ketogenic diet, what they'll notice
within 2 days is they will drop 7 to 11
pounds. A lot of that's water weight and
that's the extra fluid that's on their
body that will go away. This is not No,
this is nitric oxide. Okay, nitric oxide
is a compound that helps support the
inside of the arteries, that endothelial
layer. It helps to relax and vasoddilate
the arteries. And the question is, how
do we increase it? Exercise,
the sun, infrared, UV increase nitric
oxide. Nasal breathing, breathe through
your nose, especially when you're
sleeping, can increase nitric oxide.
More vitamin D will help increase nitric
oxide. Probably one of the most potent
things that you can do. If we're talking
about food, the top food that will
increase nitrates that will turn into
nitric oxide is arugula. That's the type
of salad that I consume. And also beets.
I take a organic beet juice powder. And
I actually put it in cacao, okay? Raw
chocolate powder. And I mix it in some
raw milk a little bit about uh two hours
after I drink coffee in the morning
because that cacao has polyphenols.
Okay, right here that greatly increase
nitric oxide. And I just combine it with
the beets. It's a real interesting
flavor. I like it. And uh if you put it
in water, it's a little bit more nasty,
but and in raw milk, it seems to work
out great. And I also put it in the
blender to blend it up really nicely.
But that's a super way to increase
nitric oxide. Also, magnesium increases
nitric oxide. The things that decrease
nitric oxide, smoking, pollution,
stress, being too sedentary, alcohol,
refined carbs and sugar, PPIs, that's an
ant acid, and also mouthwash. All right.
Next thing, I already talked about this
several times. Regular consistent
exercise. Let's say for example you're a
procrastinator or let's say you don't
have time to exercise. Micro exercises
very short exercise throughout the day
even if it's like one to two minutes
can actually be equivalent to a longer
period of exercise. So just do as much
as you can. If you have a choice between
an elevator walking the stairs, run up
the stairs. If you're on the computer a
lot, take frequent breaks and go do some
type of short exercise. It's a
cumulative. But I want you to really
start increasing the amount of motion
you put in your body and of course pair
that with a good amount of sleep because
we want to recover from the exercise.
Now if you are over the age of 50, I
briefly mentioned sarcopenia. I have a
much more thorough video on this. I
think it would be very beneficial for
you to watch and I put it up right here.
Check it out right now.
