Is expensive bacon really worth it? It's
really confusing when you're shopping at
the store for bacon because there's all
these different types, all these
different price points from $3.39 to $5
to $9 to $12. Or even in some cases,
would you ever spend $283
for a pound of bacon? Well, maybe you
would if you understood the bacon from
the pigs that I actually raised on my
amazing farm, which I'll get into the
details a little bit later. When we're
talking about the quality of bacon, we
have this commodity, extremely cheap
bacon. This is what's in most of the
grocery stores. Yes, you have a little
bit of protein. You have a lot of fat.
When a pig is born and weaned off its
mother, it's about 40 to 50 lbs. Then
sent to the feed lot. This new home that
this pig is going to live in has a
square footage of about 7 to 7.2 square
ft. That is the square footage of an
average bathtub.
It's kind of like you living in a
closet.
Now, they're going to increase the
weight of that pig to 250 to 300 lb in 3
to four months. Then the question is,
what are they feeding this poor animal?
30% of the feed is dent corn, which is
GMO. That means it's genetically
modified and it has traces of
glyphosate. Of course, the other 70% is
basically genetically modified corn and
soy. Also, things like ratopetamine.
This is a drug that is banned in 90
other countries. And this is a way to
ramp up the muscle on this animal in the
last 20 days of its life. And what's
really fascinating about these factory
farms is that they have certain
agricultural gag laws. There's laws
against whistleblowers. You can't really
reveal what's happening inside some of
these farms. Very few people know that
that bacon that they buy at the store
for $3.33
comes from these factory farms. They
don't really think about it. They don't
really know about it. I don't want to
support that. I want to support the
small farmer that's really doing it
right, that really cares about the
animals welfare. Now, let's talk about
the processing of bacon. There's always
this smoke flavor with bacon, right? And
you might think that they're going to
roast uh this pork, but no, they're
actually going to add liquid smoke where
they add this smoke flavoring to the
pork. They add some salt, water, and
sometimes sugar and MSG, slice it up,
and stick it in the grocery store. Let's
contrast that with pasture-raised bacon.
A really good example of a farmer that
does it right, his name is John
Arbuckle. John's farm is called Singing
Pastures, and I'm going to put a link
down below because his salami and his
meat sticks are off the charts. It takes
a lot of work to do that. I've talked to
him many times on the phone. I've gotten
pictures of his farm and he'll put 20
pigs on an acre of land, but then he
rotates them to allow the grass to
regenerate. We have a really good
supportive system with the environment,
the super healthy microbes that actually
grow and support the plant and give the
pig a much better nutrition profile.
Plus, they're out in the sun, so they
get a lot more vitamin D. The biggest
thing is they get exercise, freedom to
walk around and navigate through the
environment. Then you have these farms
in Spain and Italy where these pigs live
on acorns. These acorns are one of the
best foods for pigs in Europe. They will
cure their ham, ferment, and enhance the
flavor and the quality of the meat. And
that curing process could last like 36
months. Now, let me shift gears to my
little farm operation I have. I'm not
selling food on my farm. It's just a
hobby. I'm like a farmer wannabe. I'm
actually not very skilled at it. I'm
just learning how to do it because it's
an interesting hobby for me. I have some
pigs and I'm only talking about five
pigs, but those five pigs live on five
acres. They get to run around and
there's no antibiotics at all. The type
of grains that I use are the best grains
possible. It's organic. There's no soy.
There's no corn. This grain is super
expensive. $1,500
per,000 lbs of feed. I calculated the
cost of one of my pigs and I was shocked
because it was literally around $49,000
because this is over a course of several
years of just feeding them and and
getting to the point where they're
literally like 600 or 700 lb. If I were
to sell one pound of bacon from my pork
without even making any profit, my cost
is $283.33
per pound. No one in the right mind
would spend that amount. I do not know
how a small farmer can afford to raise
pigs. This is why it's important to
support the small farmer, especially at
the farmers market and and other places
online. And personally, my opinion is
it's much better for your health. I want
to shift gears to nitrates. Nitrates are
a chemical to act as an antibacterial
and even to enhance the taste a little
bit. One of the problems with nitrates
is when you add high heats, you can turn
the nitrates into another form of
nitrates which are cancer-causing.
There's a big difference between
synthetic nitrates and the naturally
occurring nitrates that are in certain
vegetables like celery. When pork is
smoked and you're allowing this to
naturally occur with smoke, it actually
adds a benefit to that pork. Pork has
some of the highest B1 that you can get
from any other animals. Pasture-raised
pork also has vitamin D, trace minerals
like selenium and zinc. Pork can be very
nutrient-dense. Over 50% of the fat in
pork, I'm talking about lard fat, is a
healthy thing. We used to cook with lard
long ago. If that pork is raised in a
right environment, you can use that lard
in cooking and different recipes. Let me
shift to the mistakes people make when
they're cooking pork. The more
overcooked that the meat is, the more
the byproducts can be a carcinogen. It's
very important when you're frying this
bacon not to overdo it. One way is
baking. bake your bacon in the oven.
Another way to do it is in an air fryer.
Also, if you're frying bacon, if you add
a little bit of water to the pan, it can
help to reduce the overcooking and the
burning effect. Another thing, if you're
frying bacon, you can add a little bit
of olive oil to the bottom part. You're
adding more antioxidants from this extra
virgin olive oil. some other solutions
to reduce some of the carcinogenic
effect from, you know, frying bacon. You
can actually add garlic and onions when
you're frying the bacon. It can
neutralize those carcinogens. The other
thing is that when you have bacon, what
are you eating with the bacon?
Cheeseburger with a bun and eating with
fries and stuff. That's really bad. If
you eat your bacon like on a salad or
with other things at the same time, you
can add some antioxidants to counter the
effect of these nitrates that I talked
about. What about microwaving bacon? I
am very much against that. It produces
this nasty chemical reaction. In fact,
I'm leerary about cooking any meats in a
microwave. So, in summary, definitely
upgrade your bacon towards a more
pasture-raised pork, and that way you
can actually have a nutrient-dense food.
Now that you know the truth about bacon,
we now need to talk about eggs sense of
the perfect combination and all the
reasons why you need to be consuming
more eggs on a regular basis. Out of all
the important videos that I've done
about food, this one is at the top of
the list and you're going to find out
why. Watch it right now.
