Autism is not caused by vaccines. The
science has settled. If you look it up
on Wikipedia, it'll say there is no
known cause of autism. It's most likely
genetic, possibly environmental. There's
no known cure. But there's one thing
that Wikipedia does emphasize over and
over again. It's a myth that vaccines
are a cause of autism. I have to give a
disclaimer here because YouTube has
policies. If something conflicts with
medical consensus, it's considered
misinformation. However, YouTube does
give you an exception to that. If you
want to cover opposing viewpoints or
your own opinions and you back it up
with research, potentially they won't
take the video down. I am not going to
conclude for you. I'm just going to give
you a series of pieces of information
and you can make up your own mind. With
all these controversial topics, there's
always opposing viewpoints, right?
Because you have like Dr. Paul Offett.
He's an advocate for vaccines for
children and he's a critic of the
antivaccine movement. Then of course you
have Anthony Fouchy who also says that
there's no evidence between autism and
vaccines. And then between 2010 and
2021, Fouchy received 58 royalty
payments directly from vaccine research.
So there's two main things I want to
talk about. Uh number one is the myth
that autism comes from vaccines because
it's been disproven and there's no
research. I'm going to cover that. And
then number two, there's no cure for
autism. There's advocates that are
telling us that a cure is even dangerous
and autism is normal. Let's first talk
about what we really know about autism.
We know that there's a much higher level
of inflammation in the brain with
autism. And I'm going to put some links
down below from the research done by Dr.
Combbre who's a neurologist. So the data
that he found in autism is that there's
chronic inflammation that's not related
to a microbe or a pathogen. One study
showed that 70% of autistic children had
higher levels of autoimmune diseases,
which is really interesting. But what's
even more interesting about that, a
vaccine given to a person does not
create an adequate immune response
unless you also add something to that
vaccine. And that thing that's added to
the vaccine is called an adguant.
Aluminum compounds are the most commonly
used vaccine aduants. Research shows
that aluminum is toxic on multiple
levels. It is a neurotoxin. The
neurotoxicity of aluminum typically
manifest in learning, memory,
concentration and speech deficits. The
question arises, what makes the brain
particularly susceptible to aluminum
toxic impact? When you get an injection
with this adgiuant aluminum, it goes up
into and it crosses the bloodb brain
barrier with the help of an immune cell
triggered by repeated exposure of
unexpectedly long persistence of
aluminum adgivants in the human body.
Now, that's all very interesting, but
now I have to show you something on this
page right here. What we're looking at
on this page is from 1980 to 2023. Okay?
And we're looking at the autism rate in
the United States. There was 1 in 10,000
people in the US. And the number of
vaccine doses went up to 12 with
aluminum exposure 4x more than 250. So
we got a,000 micrograms. 10 years later,
now we have 1 in 150 people getting
autism. And at that time we went up
doubling from 12 to 24 number of vaccine
doses by age 6 with more than doubling
the aluminum exposure to
2500 micrograms of aluminum. Now, 23
years later, in 2023, one in 36 kids are
diagnosed with the most aggressive
vaccine schedule in history with 49
vaccine doses by age 6 with an aluminum
toxicity exposure of 5,000 micrograms.
Now, I'm not telling you what to
conclude from this. I'm just giving you
the data. The FDA Department of Health
and Human Services requires limits on
aluminum in parental feeding solutions
that require warning labels about
potential aluminum hazards, yet sets no
safety limits or required warnings for
aluminum in vaccines. I would love to
ask uh some of these medical experts
that are pro- vaccine to help me
understand how
5,000 micrograms are safe for a child
under the age of six. The consequence of
this view is best reflected in the fact
that a large number of vaccine trials
use an aluminum adgivant containing
placebo or other aluminum containing
vaccines as the control group. When
you're doing an experiment, a control
group is a group that doesn't get the
treatment. So that way you have
something to compare to, right? So guess
what? in the studies using this adgiant
aluminum in vaccines, the control group
that's not supposed to be getting the
aluminum is getting the aluminum. So
right there, that completely cancels out
those studies that did that. And also
the data when you look at countries that
don't have such a aggressive vaccine
schedule do not have significant
trending autistic diagnosises. Even in
the Amish community, which is
unvaccinated, they have extremely low
diagnosises of autism. there are certain
genes that could put uh a child more at
risk for developing autism. No doubt.
And so the combination of the aggressive
vaccine schedule with the amount of
aluminum in an individual that's
vulnerable because their genetics are
predisposed to having autism, that could
be the perfect storm. I personally think
that before anyone is given a vaccine,
if they could look at their genetics to
see if they're vulnerable, then they can
have a better choice on who's more at
risk than others. So, I'm going to give
you Dr. Cornbury's protocol, and then
right after I give you Dr. Cornbrey's
protocol, I'm going to show you a clip
of him speaking about this topic. So,
the number one thing that he'll give
someone is vitamin D3 in higher amounts,
10,000 IUs. High levels of vitamin D3
help to uh create a calming effect of an
overactive immune system. We have a
hyper sensitive immune reaction in the
brain interrupting the normal function
of the brain. So, vitamin D. Number two,
propololis. This is something that
related to what bees make. Propololis
greatly helps regulate a dysfunctional
immune system and it's a very potent
anti-inflammatory for the brain. But the
third thing is probably the most
important thing and it's an oral silica
supplement and the one that Dr. Dr.
Colomb recommends is called monomethyl
cylentrol and he'll give uh between 100
to 200 mg of the silica three times a
day and if the child also has
hyperactivity he will add to this
protocol 4 g of glycinate which calms
down the nervous system. Now he'll also
make some adjustments on that. If the
child is too sleepy during the day he'll
cut that down a little bit because it
does make you very calm. And I'm going
to recommend that you put your child on
a low carb diet. So then the brain can
start increasing ketones. And I also
think that will support the brain. But
I'm not making any claims. This is all
theory. Go ahead and make up your own
mind. But now check out this clip from
Dr. Core. When you inject aluminum in
vaccines, aluminum is not eliminated by
the kidneys. It remains in our organism.
It is within the immune cells and it
enters the brain carried by the immune
cells. There is a lot of research by
Christopher Axling and he has shown that
uh in the brains of people who died they
had autism and they found high levels of
aluminum in the brain tissue. They went
to the University of Oxford in England
and they got samples from the brains of
patients that had autism when they died
and they could see in the microscope
that there were lots of nanop particles
of aluminum. It's amazed to see the
number of of vaccines and how people
just accept that as something being
normal. I've been treating autism since
2014. I was in high doses of vitamin D.
In a way, uh autism is an autoimmun
disorder and in another way is also a
manifestation of toxicity caused by uh
this aluminum. It causes a lot of
abnormal metabolic changes. Every now
and then I received
uh patients uh their children are
adolescents and I was amazed to see the
number of children and adolescents that
are depressed nowadays committing
suicide and this is increasing as the in
the same rate that autism is increasing.
So at some point I received here a MS
patient and her daughter was 17 years
old. The patient told me that uh when
she was only 4 years old she was so
depressed that child had to take
anti-depressant drugs. And because that
girl was born in 2006 when she was
receiving lots of vaccines containing
aluminum, I decided to give her silica.
That substance binds to aluminum and
both silica and aluminum are eliminated
by the kidneys. And she came back uh a
year later and she said that her
depression was almost gone. She said
that she was uh
85% better and her
psychiatrist was decreasing the drugs
that she was taking. The psychiatrist
thought that she maybe she was no longer
uh needing uh the all those medications.
You see, this is a a tip of an iceberg.
I'm going to put all that information
down below, but I really appreciate this
interview. This has been very
enlightening and I think this is going
to help a lot of people. I really
appreciate you sharing this information.
It's been extremely valuable. Thank you.
Thank you for the opportunity to pass
that information. Absolutely.
