If you wake up to pee at night, it's not
your bladder. It's something completely
different. How many times did you wake
up last night to pee once, twice, more
than that? So many people that get up
through the night think that they have a
prostate problem or a weak bladder.
Well, you're going to learn today it has
nothing to do with that. And if you get
up even once a night, you're going to be
extremely happy that you watch this
video because I'm going to show you how
to fix it very quickly. Because the real
big problem is not the peeing at night.
It's what it does to your sleep. It
literally will destroy your sleep. And
with poor sleep, that gives you a
cascade of a lot of other problems,
including affecting your metabolism,
okay? Your ability to lose weight. It
will raise your cortisol if you're not
sleeping. It'll put you at risk for type
2 diabetes and give you something called
insulin resistance, which creates a lot
of other issues related to blood sugar.
It will increase your risk of high blood
pressure, make your arteries more stiff,
give you more visceral fat because of
the cortisol. It'll keep you in a hunger
mode, wanting to snack through the day.
Also, not sleeping affects your ability
to detoxify your brain. That's why you
wake up with brain fog. I had that
really bad. Your mood goes down,
anxiety, depression, your cognitive
function, focus, memory, concentration,
all are affected if you're not sleeping.
Not to mention low testosterone, and of
course, you're going to be tired all day
long because you're not sleeping. There
are cultures where there's people that
live well into their 80s and even 90s,
and they sleep through the entire night.
They're not getting up at all. Yet, in
certain countries, especially in the US,
one in five men and one in four women
get up at least once or twice to urinate
every single night, which is crazy. So,
aging is not the problem. There's
several other things that I'm going to
show you that are the problem. So, the
first thing you need to know is there's
a hormone involved. Maybe you've never
heard about this hormone, and I'm not
going to get into it too deep, but it's
called the anti-iuretic
hormone. Now, think about what that
means. Antidiuretic. It means it's anti
you urinating excessively, especially
through the night. So, this hormone is
super important in the prevention of
excessive urination, especially at
night. It has everything to do with
water balance. If there's a problem with
this hormone, you're going to make more
urine, especially at night. The first
thing that will affect it is having an
imbalance of too much salt and not
enough potassium. This is very common.
So, right there, that's going to affect
the kidneys. That's going to create a
problem. Your body's going to want to
get rid of this excess salt. So, it's
going to cause more urine to be
produced. And just so you know, avocados
are loaded with potassium. Leafy greens,
bigger salads have a lot of potassium.
Next one is blood sugar, which if you're
a diabetic, you know that you pee
through the night because if there's too
much sugar in your blood, the body will
get rid of it. And so as it goes through
the kidney and the bladder, it's going
to pull water with it. Typically, if you
have a imbalance of salt and potassium
and blood sugar issues, you're going to
have fluid retention in your legs. So if
you were to press into your lower leg or
ankle or your foot and it leaves a dent,
that means you have fluid retention. But
when you're no longer standing and you
lay horizontal in bed, a lot of that
fluid is going to get absorbed back into
the blood and it has to go somewhere and
it's going to go out through the
kidneys. So if you have fluid retention,
suspect these two problems right here.
Some really key nutrients that are
involved with bladder control are
vitamin B1 and magnesium. B1 has
everything to do with the part of the
nervous system that controls especially
the bladder. But in order for B1 to
work, it needs magnesium. So these two
are really important, especially if you
urinate in the middle of the night and
not a lot of urine comes out. Or
anything that's related to neurogenic or
neurological, think B1 and magnesium.
Other things that mess with this hormone
would be too much caffeine. This is why
it's important just to have like a small
amount of caffeine in the morning. Don't
overdo it because this can act as a
diuretic not just from coffee but from
tea as well. And even chocolate has some
stimulants in there that can cause a
diuretic effect. Sugar and starch of
course are going to contribute to this
insulin resistance and this is a really
big culprit because this is going to
raise the glucose in the blood and the
body is going to have to get rid of it.
It gets rid of it fast with the help of
insulin but as it leaves it pulls water.
So, if you're doing sugar or starch,
especially in the evening, you're going
to have to pee at night several times.
Excess protein. When you consume too
much protein, one of the byproducts is
ura. And your body's going to get rid of
ura by releasing more urine. So, if
you're having a huge protein supper,
whatever, suspect you might need to get
up because of the excess protein turning
into ura. This is why I recommend having
most of your protein as your first meal,
maybe at lunch, and having a smaller
amount of protein for dinner if you're
getting up or having a problem sleeping.
But the biggest trigger for throwing off
this hormone is this right here,
alcohol. Boy, if you want to get up and
pee, just drink alcohol before bed.
That's one of the biggest triggers.
When's the worst time to drink fluids?
Well, the answer to that is later at
night. Anytime before 3 hours of you
going to bed is a very bad idea. A lot
of people, including me, are not thirsty
in the first part of the day, but a lot
more thirsty in the evening. And I used
to drink a ton of water at night until I
learned that this is not dehydration.
It's a survival mechanism to cause you
to have enough fluid because you're not
going to be drinking for the next 12
hours. What's worse than that is
snacking on carbohydrates and starches
or salty things. Snacking, you'll get
really thirsty and drink a lot of fluid.
Oh my gosh, you're going to be up all
night urinating because also the sugar
and the starch are going to deplete your
potassium even more. It's not just what
you drink, it's what you're eating. Now,
think about this. Your kidneys filter
170 lers of fluid all day long. Okay?
They're filtering all this liquid, but
only getting rid of between 1.5 and 2 L
of fluid. So, now let's talk about how
to turn this thing around. I've already
covered a lot of these things, but let's
just go through the list. Avoid all
alcohol, okay, at night. right there.
That's going to make a huge change. If
you have any challenges of getting off
alcohol, I'm going to put a link down
below for a video for you to watch.
Okay? No fluids 3 hours before bed. So,
I get a lot of fluid in the first part
of the day and also up until dinnertime.
You don't want to have salty things
right before bed. You don't want to
consume any snacks at night. That is a
killer for most people because it's
going to create insulin resistance. In
fact, out of all the things you can do,
the snacking at night is the absolute
worst thing, especially if you get up
even one time a night. If you have too
much sodium and not enough potassium,
and this is very common, the kidneys
will not respond to that hormone like
they should anymore. And so one thing
that I recommend is start increasing
higher potassium foods, avocados, or
even take a high potassium electrolyte
in the early part of the day, not at
night. So this is one more thing that
I've been successful with in helping
with this problem. Also, just helping
people stop drinking too much caffeine.
And it's amazing how many people drink
coffee all day long and they just need
to cut down the caffeine because the
diuretic is just pushing the fluid out.
I don't want to beat a dead horse, but
no snacking. Also, keep your carbs
lower. Okay? If you reduce your carbs
and your sugar, then there won't be any
reason to actually cause the water to go
out. You have to realize that water
follows sugar. Okay? So, if there's more
sugar, it's going to follow it and it's
going to go out through the urine and
all of this causes insulin resistance.
And then this other point of no large
protein meals, be careful at night of
doing too much protein. It's just going
to cause you to urinate too much. And if
you have the situation where you have to
pee really bad and only a little bit
comes out and like what's going on?
Well, that's a neurological thing. So
more B1 and whatever it says to take on
the directions, I would multiply it by
four because you need a higher amount.
You need a therapeutic dosage of B1.
Also add magnesium glycinate and more
potassium. Now, I promise you, if you
apply what I just showed you, you are
going to sleep through the night. And I
want you to come back and comment down
below so it'll give other people hope
that it really does work. But before you
click away, I want you to do this right
now. I created a one-page download that
you can print out that actually covers
my daily routine in a checklist. It took
me a long time to figure it out, but
it's very, very simple. I put a link
down below. You can click it. There's no
cost. Print it out. put it on your
refrigerator, okay? And just follow it.
And after you do that, because insulin
resistance is at the root cause of this
problem, I want you to get all the
details on how to fix that. So, I put a
video up that shows you how to correct
insulin resistance. It's right here.
Watch it right now.
