I have tried some of the most extreme
celebrity bio hacks. And today I'm going
to share my results, my experience, and
I'm also going to tell you what to do to
virtually get almost the identical
results at a fraction of the cost
because some of these things are very
expensive. But I am a human guinea pig
for different therapies. And I've tried
a lot more than this list. But these are
some of the common things that you'll
hear on the news with various
celebrities. The underlying mechanism is
very simple. You're adding a stress to
the body to trigger certain biochemical
pathways to help you heal faster or more
efficiently. But realize that the
ultimate healing comes from your own
body, not externally. The external
things are called epigenetics that can
actually trigger this healing to happen.
So let's first start out with number
one, peptides. A peptide is basically
instructions to tell your body what to
do. A lot of athletes use peptides,
celebrities and people with a wide range
of different problems. The reason I
wanted to try peptides was for my
osteoarthritis from the years of injury,
sports, motorcycles, etc. These are
injectables. You inject yourself and the
whole field of peptides is very new and
it's going to take time to really get
all the research laid out and understand
what it can really do. But I did
peptides several years ago and I only
tried two different types of peptides.
One here is called BPC-157
and that specific one send signals in
the body to help improve joints to help
improve blood flow, tendons, nerves and
I mainly use that for arthritis and
honestly I did not feel too much change
from that. I also tried this one right
here called Thyosin Alpha 1 and this one
works a little bit more on the immune
system reducing inflammation especially
for chronic inflammation to see if it
can help me with my arthritis. That
being said, a lot of people swear by
these and there's a lot of people
getting great results. It didn't do much
for me, but what I found that worked
better for my arthritis is myofascial
stretching. Every night before I go to
bed, I do a regular routine that
involves stretching not just my joints,
but my fashcia, which is kind of like
the wet suit throughout the entire body.
But out of all the things that help me,
that was the biggest thing. And of
course, omega-3 fatty acids, cod liver
is very important, and also getting rid
of all the seed oils. But for me so far,
fashcia stretching is hands down the
best thing that works for my arthritis.
Let's talk about number two, stem cells.
Now, this is an interesting topic.
There's a lot of different people that
you can go to to get stem cells. I went
to a clinic in LA which has a very
advanced way of extracting stem cells
from your fat. So I actually had to gain
weight. So I had a little bit of a roll
in my stomach so they can extract the
stem cells from it. And they have this
machine that they siphon it down and
they extract these stem cells and then
they inject them into your body while
you're unconscious. very expensive
versus other types of stem cell therapy
where they will use other types of stem
cells from animals or other sources and
then they'll inject you. I've done those
too. They're less expensive. Personally,
I didn't see a lot of change. I did feel
some improvement, no doubt. Would I do
it again? I don't think I would. But
again, the reason I went is because I
kept reading all the success stories.
And there are so many people out there
that will swear by it. It's just a
miraculous thing for them. But I did it
for my arthritis and they actually gave
me over 125 injections in my spine and
they also did it in my elbow and my
shoulder. So it was quite intense and
the recovery was crazy too because
you're a little bit sore after this and
so you're kind of walking kind of slow.
I remember I was in LA and I had to stay
there a few days. So, I was in
sweatpants in this big shirt. I was kind
of black and blue where they took these
stem cells out. And I'm kind of walking
down Hollywood Boulevard, shuffling
around like an old person. And I
couldn't take a shower right away, so my
hair was all messed up. And I was
walking and hoping no one would
recognize me. So, of course, I was
walking by and I saw this very, very
expensive
health food store. Go in there and get
some food. And of course, there were a
whole bunch of people eating outside
like, "Hey, Dr. Berg, how are you? I
watch all your videos." And I'm like,
"I'm doing fine. I look like an old
man." Like I just got out of bed and a
and was hoping no one else would
recognize me. But overall, stem cells
are really fascinating. There are other
ways to trigger stem cells. I would
never discourage someone from using stem
cells because I've heard some of the
most amazing things from them. For me,
it didn't really handle my arthritis
like the myofascial stretching did. Stem
cells are like blank cells that haven't
turned into anything yet. And then what
happens is these undefined or
undifferentiated cells can turn into
whatever cells you need them for as new
workers. The other thing about stem
cells is you can also stimulate stem
cells by doing prolong fasting. Okay,
three days of prolonged fasting can
create a huge spike in stem cells
without having to spend anything.
Fasting is very inexpensive and pretty
much everyone can afford it. And just as
a side note, if you ever do prolong
fasting and you want to get the benefits
of stem cells and the healing and the
cleaning up your cells, that's called
autophagy. If you're trying to do
prolong fasting for just weight loss,
then you should do some intense workouts
if you can handle that. But typically,
you don't want to do anything crazy
because you're in that healing mode and
you really want to rest and let your
body do its thing and heal and repair.
Okay, next one. This is a really
interesting one. It's called
intermittent hypoxic hyperoxic training.
What you're going to do either on a
treadmill or a stationary bike is you're
going to hook up a mask and it's
connected to a machine that can control
oxygen. And so you warm up as you're
walking with this face mask and then you
flip a switch at a certain point to
decrease the oxygen for a very short
period of time, maybe 30 seconds, maybe
up to a minute. And of course, when
you're starting this, you want to start
really small and then we flood the body
with oxygen up to 80%. So, we just give
all this oxygen to the cells while
you're exercising. Now, what's really
interesting about this is when you
starve yourself of a little oxygen and
you're mimicking higher altitude
training, your cells start getting
hungry for oxygen. And then over time,
you even build new capillaries and build
a new vascular system because you're
creating this stress that's causing your
body to compensate. And then you
literally drive this oxygen into areas
of the body that at some point didn't
have enough oxygen, especially
inflammation because anytime you have
inflammation, you have a lack of oxygen.
So this is a great way to improve
recovery and get rid of inflammation.
What I did, of course, what I always do
is I just set it for going lower oxygen
and push myself a little bit more and
literally like for two weeks I had this
immune reaction because what you're
doing is you're decreasing increasing
blood flow to certain areas of your body
that might have toxins and then that
creates an immune reaction. So that
being said, if you ever do this, do it
slowly and gradually over a period of
time. I did it to improve something
called V2 max, my body's ability to use
more oxygen. Now, that being said, it's
an expensive unit. It's like $10,000. I
think you can create almost the
identical effects if you just get an
inexpensive mask. I think they're called
high alitude training masks where you
can set the little monitor for
resistance to oxygen to simulate
different altitudes. And I have one of
those and I do use those as well. And of
course, you would do little sprints
where you're shutting off the oxygen and
then you open it up and let yourself
breathe. And pretty much anyone can
afford those units. I highly recommend
it to get your body to adapt and have
more benefits. Let's talk about the next
one. Ozone therapy. The one that I
received is they actually took blood out
of you. They ran it through an ozone
machine and then they reinjected the
blood and now we have this ozenated
blood traveling through the body. And
this is a very deep cleaning of the
body. It's really good for kind of
hidden infections. Now realize you can
get a version of ozone therapy by just
exercising, okay? doing sauna, consuming
cruciferous vegetables, doing
intermittent fasting and prolonged
fasting. All of these things strengthen
your body's detoxification systems.
Let's go to the next one. Dry fasting.
Dry fasting is you're eating nothing and
you're drinking nothing. Now, the first
thing you probably had a thought on is,
"Wow, this is dangerous. I think we can
only exist for 3 days without water."
Well, again, I'm a human guinea pig, so
of course I had to do it because people
tell me not to do it. That's been my
nature for a very long time. If you tell
me not to do something, of course I have
to do it. There are groups of people who
do dry fasting. They have done dry
fasting for literally 11 days in a row,
sometimes longer. When you do dry
fasting, you just create more of an
intense effect on your body. you trigger
a lot of survival genes that you
wouldn't necessarily trigger that you
probably never turned on before. There's
been some experiments, especially with
people that have cancer, that when they
did a version of dry fasting, it helped
get rid of the cancer faster, but again,
you have to do it very, very gradually.
It was very weird when I did this going
to bed at night knowing I didn't drink
anything. I was able to do it, but the
problem was I was outside gardening when
it was hot and I'm sweating. I should
have rested in a cool area. And again, I
don't recommend that you do this unless
you really understand what you're doing
and you're supervised because it's going
to add a lot of stress to your body. The
last thing I want to say about dry
fasting, which is fascinating, is that
when you don't drink water, you actually
burn more fat. fat actually converts to
water. One pound of fat will be
converted to more than one pound of
water. Isn't that bizarre? That is
called biological water. And that has
some therapy, too. The whole mainstream
messages you must constantly keep
drinking water or you're going to die.
We have to drink, drink, drink, drink,
drink. But if you take a look at the
ancient humans living in the
environment, we didn't drink so much
constant water. we drank and then we
didn't drink for a period of time. So, I
always question, is drinking constant
water such a good thing to do? Sometimes
it can deplete you of minerals,
especially sodium, and create another
problem. But when you're doing dry
fasting, you're doing this a lot
stronger, and people report back like
really huge benefits to this dry
fasting. So, you might want to do your
own research on it. All right, let's
talk about ice baths. I have an ice
bath. I don't really go below 50°. I
tried it. I couldn't do it. So, I stick
at 50 degrees and maybe you even need to
start at, you know, 60 degrees. But the
point is that you're changing the body's
temperature to create a stress to induce
a healing effect in your body. And what
I found because I have arthritis, it
creates huge effects on my inflammation.
It's very painful, especially at first
because every single cell in your body
is like, "Don't do it. Okay, don't do
it." So, I just reverse that and I tell
my body, you're going in. You don't have
a choice. And I just go right in. And
then you have to focus on your breathing
because you start getting in this flight
or fight and you're like, you're
breathing. And I like to keep my
forearms outside because they get really
cold. And I'm able to do it for, you
know, five minutes. Now, I had to work
up to it. But if you do that just a few
times a week, super beneficial. The big
thing I noticed though is it affects my
brain more than anything else. I just
feel like my attention, my focus, my
memory is so much better. So if I'm
going to do a video, for example, I need
to be like right there. I'll do an ice
bath, okay? And then I'll do the video
and I have very little edits. I can just
go right through it A to B. And also my
mood goes straight up. I'm like happier.
It's wild. I mean, think about what
happens.
Your body has to maintain 98.6,
okay? And you're going into this cold
bath. So, what does your body have to
do? It has to generate a massive amount
of heat. How does it do that? Through
the mitochondria. The mitochondria,
instead of generating energy, it's
generating heat, which is a different
thing. And it's wasting a lot of energy.
And this is what you want to do if you
want to lose weight because when people
have extra fat on their body, they
become a very efficient machine and your
body doesn't want to waste that energy.
It conserves energy. So the way to waste
it is to do the cold therapy. That's one
thing you could do. Not to mention other
things like exercise, but you don't have
to even get an ice bath. You can just do
a cold shower. And you can even get part
of your body cold, not the whole thing.
That's a little bit easier as well. So,
these extreme celebrity bio hacks all
work by adding stress to the body to
then cause our body to repair better. I
have a free download that I want to give
to you. This free download is my daily
routine in a checklist. This is a
routine that I use every day to feel
like I'm 18 years old even though I'm 60
years old. And I want to give it to you
for free. And so, there's a little link
down below. Click it and definitely
download that. And since I talked about
repair and also detoxification, if you
have not seen my video on selenium and
how important that is for your
detoxification enzymes, I put that video
up right here. Check it out.
