Right now, big pharma is freaking out
about RFK and what he's releasing to the
public and what RFK is researching and
trying to find out. There are billions
of dollars at stake in this topic. We're
going to be talking about vaccines,
Tylenol, the new medication for autism.
So, in the news right now, you'll see
all sorts of things relating to RFK.
He's irresponsible. He's anti-science
because RFK is trying to revive already
debunked vaccine myths. I mean, what are
we doing? I mean, the case is closed. We
already know there's no connection
between vaccines and autism. And we
already used Tylenol for so many years.
I mean, it's pretty safe. I mean, it's
probably one of the safest things you
can give to a small child, right? Well,
on one side, the status quo, the
conventional traditional medical does
not want you to know this cause of
autism. They're fighting it tooth and
nail. And then on the other side, RFK is
like, let's study everything. Especially
since at one time, not too long ago, one
out of a 100,000 children were diagnosed
with autism. And now it's 1 in 31.
That's ridiculous. that is a massive
spike in autism. So the opposition will
say, "Well, oh, autism has always been
there. We just now are having better
ways of diagnosing it." Well, if that
was true, then you would look into every
single nursing home and they would be
filled with autistic people, and you
don't see that. If you personally had a
child with autism, wouldn't you want
someone to look deeply and widely at
every possibility? I mean, that's just
common sense. And especially since
there's a lot of money involved, there
are a lot of conflicts of interest.
There's revolving doors and big pharma
doesn't have any legal liability with
vaccines. When they do studies, they
don't compare an active vaccine to
something like a sugar pill. They're
studying one active vaccine to another
vaccine to look at if it's safe in
comparison. That would be very similar
to studying Pepsi cola and what it can
do for your blood sugar and the caffeine
effect, right? And you compare that to
Coke, right? Well, if you compare Coke
to Pepsi, you're not going to see much
difference. And then somehow they
conclude that Pepsi is not any more
dangerous than Coke, so it's safe.
That's how they research vaccines for
kids. And through the research, they
found an association between Tylenol and
autism. But RFK never said it caused
autism, but it could definitely be one
of the triggering factors that can
influence susceptible people to
developing autism. One thing you need to
know about Tylenol, it's used for
fevers, it's used for headaches, it's
used for pain, it's used for menstrual
cramps. And you might say, well, it
doesn't really have many side effects.
Well, did you realize that uh Tylenol is
the number one leading cause of acute
liver failure? Over 80,000
people every single year end up in the
ER because of taking too much Tylenol
unintentionally. Why? Because this
chemical acetaminophen, which actually
makes up Tylenol, is in over 600
different products. and depletes
glutathione
and this leaves the liver without the
main antioxidant and it destroys the
liver if you don't have enough
glutathione and this is why even in
emergency rooms in hospitals they use
this thing called NAC that actually
boosts up your glutathione to protect
the liver against this Tylenol poisoning
and the problem with NAC
as far as going into the brain pain to
maybe help autism. There's apparently
when you take it orally, it doesn't
really go through the bloodb brain
barrier. Right now, they're doing
research on different forms of NAC,
which allows this glutathione to
penetrate into the brain. The results
aren't out yet, so we will know soon on
that. But the point is if we have a
combination of things going on, let's
say we have a genetic weakness that
makes you vulnerable and then someone's
taking Tylenol and then on top of that
the child gets vaccinated very
frequently with this buildup of
aluminum. All of these factors together
are the perfect storm to then develop
into autism. And I did a video on the
work from Dr. Combbre who is a
neurologist on this and he has seen some
really good results in this area and he
recommended for children with autism to
start taking silica okay as one of the
things because silica slowly chilates
this aluminum from the brain over a
period of months to a year. So why
wouldn't we want to evaluate this a
little bit deeper? Why wouldn't we want
to look at the accumulated effects and
the dosing and the timing and the the
compounding effect? Maybe you're taking
a couple dosages without even knowing
about it. Well, mainstream doesn't even
want us to look at this. They don't want
to make this connection because there's
obviously a lot of money involved. And
what RFK is saying is why don't you just
use more caution when you take this and
not just go to it as a standard thing,
as a preventative action. Only take it
when it's needed under a doctor's
supervision and take the least amount
possible. If it creates destruction of
your liver in an older person, what do
you think it's doing to a small child?
Now, I know one of the big reasons why
parents give it to their child is
because of a fever. And I just want to
touch on this fever thing for a second.
Because if you take a look at the
purpose of a fever, and I'm not telling
you not to take any medication because
you have a fever, but I just want you to
understand the purpose. The purpose is
the body's natural immune reaction to
some infection to heat up the body to
the point where these microbes get
cooked. It's one of the mechanisms that
your body uses to overcome an infection
faster because the problem when you take
Tylenol or other things that reduce the
fever or suppress a fever uh the
infection duration becomes longer. As
much as I personally hated going through
the amount of sore throats that I had
and the amount of sickness that I had
growing up, I'm glad I went through that
because I have a much stronger immune
system now. So, there's a lot of ways
you can deal with the fever. One of the
most researched ways is just to uh bathe
the child in lukewarm water where you're
basically allowing the the water on the
skin to cool off the body as it
evaporates. I mean, it's so simple and
it does lower the fever. There's other
things like willow bark, which is
exactly where aspirin came from. Many of
these medications came from nature.
Vitamin D is an immune regulator. That
would be very, very important to help
strengthen the immune system and allow
the child to get through this. Maybe
you'd use a liquid vitamin D3. And then,
of course, zinc is another important
thing for that immune system to
strengthen and get through the infection
quicker. And then, of course, you have
elderberry, which is especially good for
viruses. And then vitamin C. All very
important in getting a child through
their infection. What I did with my
kids, and I'm not suggesting you do this
with yours, is when they got a fever, I
would get them warmer. I'd give them a
hot bath, stick them in bed with a lot
of covers, and let them sweat. And
usually within one day, they get right
through it. So, I'm assisting the fever.
I want that fever to cook up those
pathogens and get rid of them. Now, I
want to shift gears a little bit to a
medication that was recommended to
improve the symptoms of autism. And I
want to just mention that no one said
this was the cure for every single type
of autism. Apparently, there are
multiple causes of autism. And one is a
genetic component. There's actually two
different genetic pieces to this puzzle.
The first one I want to talk about which
is a very common genetic problem that
can weaken your ability to detoxify and
it involves this uh gene called MTHFR.
And what this gene is involved with is
your ability to metabolize or use
folate. And so if you have a problem
with this gene, which by the way 40% of
the population does, you're more at
risk. you're more vulnerable to have a
folate deficiency. And this means if
you're very young and you get a fever
because you have an infection and then
you take Tylenol, that alone can kind of
make you more vulnerable to developing
certain problems in your brain,
including inflammation in the neurons,
which can lead to various things like
autistic symptoms. What that's going to
do, it's going to create a deficiency in
the brain of folate. And then now the
brain can't get rid of toxins as easily.
So think about 40 years ago compared to
now. You have all these different types
of pollution, microplastics, but you
also have a much higher frequency of
vaccines that are given to small
children that have something in them
like aluminum. you have things that are
pre-exposing or weakening that child to
toxins that then have a much stronger
effect on that brain than someone that
doesn't have that genetic weakness.
Especially if you look at the randomized
doubleb blinded placebo controls
using a certain type of folate that
improved their speech and other related
symptoms. And so you would consider this
kind of a little subgroup that would
respond, those that have a genetic
weakness involving folate. And the
reason I'm even bringing this up is
because there was a certain medication
that was recommended for autism. Not
every single case, but I will say that
it's very common. And this medication is
called Luca Veronin, which is basically
a synthetic folate. And if you've seen a
lot of my videos, I'm very much against
synthetic vitamins, except certain ones.
And I actually think this one is quite
interesting because if we compare this
synthetic version of folate to the
natural methylolate that I've been
recommending for an average person, I
really like the effects. Methylolate,
the natural version, only handles one
pathway, but the synthetic folate
handles multiple pathways. It's able to
bypass a lot of barriers that people
have with absorbing folate. If you take
this medication, I would take these
other co-actors as well to optimize the
results like B12, B6, B2, magnesium,
zinc. In one study, they found a folate
deficiency in between 56 and 75% of
autistic brains. In another trial that
synthetic folate boosted the IQ 20 to
50%
compared to placebo. I also have two
textbooks on the relationship between
vaccines and autoimmune diseases.
There's one more thing RFK talked about
which answers the question of why a
child could be deficient in folate in
the first place. 71% of children with
autism test positive for these
antibodies to the receptors for folate
in the brain. Vitamin D regulates the
immune system. It's involved in 2400
different genes, which means it helps
you absorb more folate in general. So,
if you're low in vitamin D, you're going
to be extra low in folate. And then I
found some additional data relating to
cow's milk. Now, in cow's milk, there's
a lot of different proteins. And one
protein that is in milk is the receptor
protein for folate. And apparently, it's
almost identical to a human's receptor
for folate. And because it's so similar
to the human receptor, now you have
antibodies against your own folate
receptor. Their argument is trying to
get people to think that autism is just
genetic and there's nothing we can do
about it. But in the meantime, we know
that folate is a huge piece of the
puzzle. And I do highly support the use
of this medication because it has
minimal side effects and it has the type
of folate that can penetrate this
autoimmune problem that these autistic
kids have. But when you start looking
through this data, you'll see there's
another little piece of this puzzle and
that is the genetic weakness. So there's
another gene that could be affected. So
they have mapped out certain genes can
put you more at risk for lupus, MS,
Hashimoto's. There's a tremendous amount
of research out there right now that big
pharma does not want you to look at.
Their whole goal is to say science is
settled. And they never really
communicate from their own
organizations. They use PR companies.
And this is why in the media you see so
many corporate puppets talking about the
benefits of vaccines and the harms of
RFK and how crazy he is. You have Dr.
Ding. Well, he has ties to Harvard John
Hopkins pharma funded grants. Then you
have Dr. Gupta. He's a former conference
speaker consultant for health tech
companies. And then we have Dr. Peter
Hutz. He's a Baylor professor. He's on
CNN on a regular basis profiting from
the vaccine complex. Then we have Dr.
Paul Offett. He's a vaccine inventor.
His vaccine patented royalty flows from
something called the rotovirus shot and
he calls Maha a distrust machine. And
then we have Dr. Lena Wen. And of course
we have Bill Cassidy who has taken over
a million dollars in pharma pack
donations. Then we have Dr. Mike who is
not a medical doctor. He's an osteopath
and he's the brand ambassador of a
vaccine group partnered with Fizer. He
was the one that really hyped masking
for the public and then he was caught on
some yacht partying with a bunch of
people without a mask himself. And then
you have Scott Gotautlib, former FDA
commissioner, extensive ties to big
farmer, served on the board of Fizer and
other biotech companies and acted as a
paid consultant across the
pharmaceutical sector. So when you see
these attacks against RFK in the news,
realize that the majority of them are
from big pharma, I'm talking about over
95% of them, they're not from actual
average people. They're from big pharma
using different PR companies and
different campaigns. So when they say
vaccine safety is overwhelming, how can
someone even say that if regulators and
pharma have financial ties? Independent
research is needed. And I think probably
the most important video for you to
watch is the one that I did recently
talking about
aluminum and how to chilate it or get it
out of the body using silica. And for
that information, watch this video right
here.
