Your labs are normal. That is probably
the most dangerous phrase in modern
medicine. Do you know why? Do you
actually know what normal means? It
doesn't mean you are diseasefree.
You are just average. And in a
population where the majority of people
are metabolically sick, average means
you're probably in that bucket, too.
I've seen this in practice for a long
time. These people coming in, they do
not look healthy. A lot of weight
issues. They're losing hair. They have
skin issues. but they come in with their
blood values that are normal. Some
people are told, "Oh, you know, it's all
in your head." Don't buy that. I mean,
the worst thing you could do to someone
is give them the wrong diagnosis. And
that's definitely a wrong diagnosis.
Today, I'm going to show you some really
important lab values. Then, I'm going to
talk about some of the most important
things you should know about a blood
test and what you should focus on. But
what happens with the blood values is
just picture like a bell curve. And what
they do when they create these reference
normal ranges is they basically cut out
the low end of this graph and the higher
end. So as the population is getting
sicker and fatter, these normal ranges
are really coming out of that group. In
1997,
they changed the normal fasting glucose
level. It was 140 and then overnight
they changed it to a 126 milligrams per
deciliter. So before 1997 you would have
to reach a blood sugar level of 140
before you diagnosed with diabetes. And
then of course right at this point if
you just had 126 you're a diabetic.
Overnight 1.4 million people were
diagnosed with diabetes. What's really
interesting is that if you look at these
trends or graphs of when people had a
problem, you will see a lot of diabetic
problems that happen over this. And if
you don't know this data right here,
you're thinking, "Wow, people are just
eating a lot more sugar." Well, maybe,
but maybe not. Maybe it's just that they
changed the numbers. Also, in 2003,
pre-diabetic used to be 110. Then after
this date, it went to 100. Overnight, 41
million people were diagnosed with
pre-diabetes after that. Again, when
you're looking at trends and past
statistics, you have to have all the
data. And this is definitely missing
data for a lot of people. And they also
did it with cholesterol, too, which I
think it was in the early 80s.
Overnight, millions of people had high
cholesterol. And then also with vitamin
D. This was done just to look at the
amount of vitamin D that you would need
to prevent ricketetts and keep your
levels at least at 20 nanogs per
milliliter. when they calculated the
RDAs they made an error which they never
corrected even now they have never
corrected this error because when they
did this evaluation and said it was 600
in reality the true numbers that you
need every day to keep your levels at 20
and prevent ricketetts is 8,895
international units that's a big
difference right I know some doctors
will even say this amount is toxic
Unbelievable. If you have a vitamin D
level of 20 nanogs per milliliter, that
is a severe deficiency. That's just my
viewpoint. I have a lot of data to back
that up. But if you have 20 or less, you
are probably suffering from a lot of
symptoms that are related to a vitamin D
deficiency. One of the biggest problems
I see with what doctors test in your
blood is glucose, right? They do a
fasting glucose test to determine what's
happening with your blood sugar. They
almost never test insulin. This right
here is the biggest blind spot in
medicine. Okay? You can have perfect
blood glucose levels, but have such a
major problem with insulin, which is
actually made by your pancreas. And
literally your pancreas is screaming at
you, but glucose is normal. So the most
missing test or the test that is the
most important that doctors should be
doing is a fasting insulin test. This
hormone right here will be elevated
15 to 20 years before your glucose
starts to be elevated. So, this test
measures how much your pancreas is
yelling at you because insulin is
removing sugar from the blood. Okay?
Normally, you should only have like one
teaspoon of sugar in all of your blood.
And so, you can imagine an average
person consumes a lot of sugar. I'm
talking about 50 to 100 teaspoons of
sugar per day. So, it's like working
really hard. And you check your blood
glucose. And the reason it's normal is
because this guy is in the background
working like crazy. What is the normal
level of fasting insulin? There is no
agreed upon number. Okay? So, I'm just
going to give you my two cents on this
based on a lot of research that I've
done on this. You want your fasting
level of insulin to be between 2 and
six. If it's at 8, you should be
concerned. If it's between 10 and 12,
you're at high risk for developing
insulin resistance and pre-diabetes and
then diabetes. But some doctors when
they see like 12, they're saying, "Well,
that's normal." It's not. And then this
leads us to the next test right here.
Homir,
I'm going to try to keep this really
simple. Homir is doing some calculations
between a fasting insulin test and also
a fasting glucose test. and it gives you
a little more information to tell you if
you have insulin resistance. This is a
precursor to diabetes. Homir is
basically telling you how glucose and
insulin are working together because if
you really look at what's happening,
right? You eat a lot of carbohydrates,
you fill up your blood with glucose, and
then what happens? Insulin comes in
there, pulls it out, and the pancreas
has to really work hard at doing this.
And then the next day, you do the same
thing over and over and over. Over a
period of time, your body is going to
compensate by creating what's called
insulin resistance because too much
insulin is very, very toxic. And when
that happens, now the pancreas gets a
signal like, oh, there's not enough
insulin when there really is. So, it
starts making more and more and more to
the point where it starts burning out.
And then now it can't regulate glucose.
And so now you get pre-diabetes and then
diabetes, which is literally 15 to 20
years after this whole thing started.
But if you would have tested fasting
insulin or even this right here, you
would pick it up. But doctors never
focus on that. So a lot of people ask
me, "What supplements do I recommend?"
Now, of course, I'm not biased of my own
high-quality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Bberg
supplements, you'll find more
information. I want to just tie in A1C.
This is like a dashboard cam. So a
dashboard cam is a video camera that you
could play back information that
happened in the past. A1C is an average
of three months of blood sugar. So it's
kind of taking out all the spikes and
giving you an average. So let's say you
eat really healthy between Monday and
Friday, but in the weekends you go off
and you start eating a bunch of
carbohydrates. You can check your blood
sugar during the week when it's great,
but if you take the average from the
weekends, it's going to drop it down.
So, basically, an A1C is how much the
red blood cell is exposed to glucose.
So, this really gives you like the
10,000
foot view of what's happening. Now,
since we're on the topic of blood sugar,
I want to just mention this dawn
phenomenon situation right here. What is
that? Some people that when they get up
in the morning, their blood sugar is
high. Okay. But they didn't necessarily
eat sugar right before that. It's high
because either the cortisol is too high
in the morning and cortisol mobilizes
sugar or the liver itself is making
sugar from other things because the
person has insulin resistance. Because
the insulin resistance really messes up
your liver to the point where it can't
really sense things correctly. So then
it starts making sugar out of things
that are not even sugar or things that
you ate that were sugar. So here you
are, you're not even eating any
carbohydrates yet your liver is making
all this carbohydrate, this sugar and
it's showing up in the morning. So even
if you take a diabetic who has severe
insulin resistance, 80% of their blood
sugar is coming from their liver making
a lot of glucose and that may influence
A1C and so it's a good idea sometimes to
measure your blood sugars in the
morning. I think what I would recommend
if you have this is you want to get rid
of the thing that created in the first
place which is eating too many
carbohydrates. If you start going on a
low carb diet and you start reducing the
need for this insulin,
you are going to eventually correct this
in relatively short period of time,
several months. So, it's the combination
of intermittent fasting and going low
carb will ultimately correct this a
problem with this, lower this, and also
correct this right here. You just want
to stick with it. Keep doing it until
eventually you wake up in the morning,
you check your blood sugar, and it's
normal. Couple other things you could
do. You can go for a long walk in the
morning to walk off and burn off that
sugar. Now, another thing that I know
doctors really don't focus on nutrition,
but if you were to do a blood test for
your minerals, especially potassium or
magnesium or even selenium or zinc,
which are also important trace minerals,
chances are they're going to show normal
in the blood because these minerals are
usually not hanging out in the blood.
They're deep in the tissues. And so when
you're checking the blood, you're only
checking a very tiny percentage of where
that mineral is. Maybe like 1 to 2%,
maybe a little bit more with this. And
so you're searching for deficiency of
something in the wrong place. There are
very specialized tests to pick up
potassium, magnesium, selenium, and
zinc. Instead of going through them in
this video, I'm going to put them down
in the description so you can get that
data if you wanted to test minerals.
But typical blood tests don't give you
accurate information what's going on
with the minerals. Like even magnesium
for example, which is super important.
If you check the blood and it's normal,
you could actually be deficient because
in your cells where the majority of
magnesium is, it could be lowered but
allow a little bit of it to trickle in
the blood giving you the sense that
you're normal but you're really not.
Let's talk about number five, B12. When
you check B12 in the blood, you're not
just checking the active form of B12,
but you're also checking part of the
inactive B12. There's another test
called MMA
test that will pick this up better. And
another good one to test this out
indirectly would be to check a
homocyine. I will include that down
below as well. Number six, CRP C
reactive protein. This is an
inflammatory marker and so many people
are inflamed.
You want this number to be as close to
zero as possible. You want it to be
below one. I've talked to many doctors
that will say, well, you know, if you're
below three, you're fine. I disagree
because that is a inflammatory process
that's going on. And even though the
average person has inflammation, that
doesn't make it normal because again,
the normal is basically average and I
don't want to be average. I want to be
healthy. If your CRP is between like 1.5
or two, like let's just say an average
of 1.8, that's not good. Okay? You don't
want that. That is a lowgrade
inflammatory state. And a couple things
you can do to improve this through diet
of course. Avoid seed oils. Avoid sugar,
refined carbohydrates, junk food. Focus
on getting rid of your visceral fat.
Make sure you sleep better. These are
all things that will greatly improve
this in addition to omega-3 fats, which
is a natural anti-inflammatory. I like
cod liver oil. And then now, let's get
to number seven, cholesterol. I'm going
to do a separate video on this, but
cholesterol is something your body
makes. It doesn't just equate to a
disease. And just because you have high
cholesterol does not mean it's a
problem. Especially if you are on a low
carb diet because people that are on a
low carb diet, they eat more fat.
They're mobilizing more fat. You're
going to actually see more cholesterol
in the body. And so one really important
element of that is to look at the
carrier of cholesterol because
cholesterol is not just floating in your
blood. It's in a little container that
is delivered to the cells and then from
the cells back to the liver. And LDL is
the number one most confused part of
this cholesterol story because there's
actually two different types of LDL. And
by the way, most people think LDL is bad
cholesterol, but it's not. It's
something your body makes to deliver
cholesterol into the tissues. And so
this is why it's really important to do
a specialized
lipid profile test instead of just a
general cholesterol test because you
want to be able to pick up the two
different types of LDL.
Pattern A and pattern B. Pattern A is
the large buoyant LDL.
This is the one that is usually
associated with people on a low carb
diet. This is usually the one that's non
pathogenic because the size of these
particles are big and they're floating
and they're not invading the arteries
creating inflammation. On the other
hand, the pattern B LDL is a small dense
particle size which can invade the
arteries and is associated with more
inflammation and more problem with heart
disease and it's more pathogenic. So,
you want to do this specialized test to
pick up what you have more of. Is it
this or that? The way that you get more
of this is you go low carb. The way that
you get more of this is you eat more
carbohydrates.
Number eight is cortisol. The problem
with testing your cortisol is cortisol
is on a wave. And if you just check your
blood tests with cortisol at one time of
the day, you're not going to pick up the
whole picture. A better test would be a
saliva cortisol where you're checking in
the morning, noon, evening, and the
middle of the night. So you can get a
full picture of what's going on. But of
course, it's a pain in the butt because
you have to get up in the middle of the
night. So there are other tests that you
can do to pick up cortisol indirectly.
And one of the best tests is uh heart
rate variability test. Some people have
the watches, some people have the bands
around the waist, some people even have
the rings. HRV technology has come a
long way. That measures the autonomic
nervous system through the heartbeat.
And then lastly, I want to talk about
vitamin D. When you test your vitamin D,
you're testing the inactive vitamin D in
your blood. You're not measuring what's
going on in the active form inside your
cells. Here's what a lot of even doctors
don't know. A very high percentage of
the population has what's called vitamin
D resistance. their blood levels look
normal, but they're actually very
deficient. There's a couple other things
you can test with vitamin D to kind of
indirectly know if vitamin D is
penetrating the cells or not. And the
test that you want to do is called a
parathyroid hormone test. So if you
check your vitamin D levels and if it's
normal and then your parathyroid is
high, you can kind of indirectly deduce
that I'm probably not getting enough
vitamin D. So this parathyroid hormone
is compensating. So you really want your
parathyroid hormone to be normal and
that way you know your vitamin D is kind
of connecting into the tissues. And this
20 nanogs per milliliter for vitamin D
is ridiculously too low. I would
recommend at least 50 to 70. But if
you're trying to therapeutically fix
something, you want it even higher than
that. I've done 284 videos on this
topic. Now that you know this basic
information, I highly recommend you
watch my video on this LDL to get all
the details to really fully understand
this because this is where so many
people are confused because there's all
these big words. So, I created a video
to make it very, very simple right here.
Check it out.
