The healthiest bread in the world is not
this. You're not going to be able to
find at the grocery store. I'm actually
going to show you how to make it. I did
a version of this video years ago and I
think I got like 9 million views. This
recipe is five ingredients. So much
easier. You are going to love it. And
it's not hard to make. It's actually
quite easy. But it's also the way you
put these ingredients together that
gives it the X factor. I know I've been
very guilty of telling you what you
can't eat. So, in this video, I'm going
to tell you what you can eat. Okay? I
just want to cover a misconception about
whole wheat bread versus white bread and
then I'm going to dive right into the
recipe. So many people have this idea
that whole wheat bread is healthy for
them. This is not true at all. I'm going
to go through this really quick and then
we're going to dive right into the
recipe. There was a metaanalysis of 13
different studies and they found the
average glycemic index for whole wheat
bread was identical to white bread. That
means both of these will spike the blood
sugar exactly the same. I mean it's
pretty wild because if you look at the
glycemic index both of them are 71.
Table sugar is 65 and whole wheat bread
is higher than that. And I found in
another study comparing these two that
certain types of whole wheat bread will
spike your blood sugar even more than
white bread. Now, I'm not recommending
white bread. I'm just telling you that
there's not a big difference as far as
your blood sugar. But there's more
problems with whole wheat bread. It's
anti-nutrient.
Okay, what does that mean? Well, when
you consume whole bread, you get the
fiber, the brand. What's in the brand is
something called phytic acid. Phytic
acid binds with minerals like iron,
zinc, calcium, magnesium, blocking them
from going into your body. So, here you
are thinking you're getting this
nutrient-dense product, but in fact,
you're getting something that has
anti-nutrients. Okay? Guess what? The
brand is removed in white bread. So, you
don't have phytic acid in white bread.
So, a lot of people ask me, "What
supplements do I recommend?" Now, of
course, I'm not biased of my own
high-quality supplement line, but if you
go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg
supplements, you'll find more
information. And then there's another
compound in whole wheat bread. I don't
even want to get into the woods with
this. Just know that this compound
creates inflammation. It has the ability
to bind with insulin receptors, not in a
good way. And so, it does create a lot
of problems, but guess what? It's
removed in white bread. And then lastly,
there's something called glyphosate,
which is an herbicide. And this is in
Roundup Ready. In fact, if you did the
comparison with other GMO products,
okay, with the amount of glyphosate on
it, well, wheat has, I think, up to
three times more because they spray it
to dry the wheat. Glyphosate acts as an
antibiotic. It can actually affect your
microbiome. It creates a lot of issues
because it's an herbicide. I've done
videos on it. And guess what? there's a
lot less glyphosate in white bread. Now,
am I saying start consuming white bread?
No, I'm not saying that. I'm saying you
can put both of these products in the
same boat. I would avoid them. Instead,
I would make this recipe that I'm about
to show you. There's five ingredients.
It's low in the glycemic index. It's not
going to spike your blood sugar. It does
not have anti-nutrients. It does not
have this compound. It doesn't have that
compound. And it's something that once
you find out how easy it is to make and
how delicious it is, you're going to be
making it on a regular basis. So, let's
dive into it right now and show you how
to make it. In this recipe, you're going
to learn a key technique that separates
good low carb bread from amazing low
carb bread. Number one, preheat the oven
to 350° F. Step two, in a large bowl,
mix together the almond flour, the
psyllium husk powder, the baking powder,
and the salt. Step three, separate your
eggs. Okay, put the eggs in a clean, dry
bowl. And this step is critical. Do not
skip it. Number four, beat the egg
whites with a hand mixture until you get
stiff peaks. This is the secret to that
light, fluffy, airy bread because it
traps the air and it gives the bread
structure and lift. Step five, in a
separate bowl, mix the egg yolks and
melt the butter together. Step six, add
the egg yolk mixture to the dry
ingredients and stir till they're
completely combined. At this point, it's
going to be very, very thick. That's
normal. Step seven, now you're going to
gently fold the whipped egg whites. Do
this in three additions, but be gentle.
You want to keep as much air in this as
possible. Step eight, line a standard
loaf pan with parchment paper. Put the
dough into the lined loaf pan and put it
in the oven. Step nine, bake for 30 to
35 minutes. And step 10, and this one's
really important, let the bread cool
completely in the pan before slicing.
Give it at least 30 minutes to cool
down. Then you cut a piece of bread, add
the butter to it, and consume it with
your meal. Now, if you enjoyed that
recipe, let's talk about the rest of the
meal. In fact, this next video is going
to reveal the absolute healthiest meal
that you could ever eat. And it's right
here. Check it out.
