Hopefully this video will not get
banned. But today I want to talk about
the shocking truth about vaccines. On
one hand, you know, I want to trust the
science. I want to trust the experts.
But on the other hand, science is about
sharing viewpoints. At the very
foundation of science, you have
disagreement. This is a normal thing. In
fact, nearly every single scientific
discovery came out of some disagreement
with some mainstream. Now it's a little
bit better. You can talk about these
things. But four years ago, if I talked
about this and it opposed medical
consensus, it was considered
misinformation. Somehow they changed the
definition of misinformation. I thought
it meant incorrect or false information.
But that's not what medical
misinformation means. Medical
misinformation means if you oppose
medical authority, medical consensus,
who is this authority, this all- knowing
body that maybe sits in an ivory tower
and pushes out the truth about health?
One is the World Health Organization and
the other is the CDC. However, I just
have a little problem with the potential
conflict of interest with the drug
companies influencing those two
organizations. And it's really sometimes
hard to find the flow of money flowing
into the World Health Organizations as
well as the CDC. The CDC actually has
patents on certain vaccines. They get
royalties. My big problem with trusting
the science is not the science part.
It's who's behind this science part
primarily in the area of vaccines for
children because I hear this over and
over and over in social media and the
news. They've been tested for safety.
It's been proven that these vaccines are
safe and effective. Normally when you
study a drug, you compare it with a
placebo. So that way you can truly test
the side effects on something. But that
is not how they test children's
vaccines. What they'll do is they'll
test an active vaccine with another
active vaccine. So, this so-called
placebo control is not really a true
placebo control because it's not inert.
It's an active vaccine with something
called an adguant. This is something
they add to vaccines to create more of
an immune reaction. And the big one that
they've been using for a long time is
aluminum. Think about this for a second.
If I were to test the safety studies on
whiskey, of course I'd want to test that
against water, right? But what if I
tested whiskey against bourbon and I
looked at the side effects of each.
Okay? So whiskey will create a fatty
liver, creates inflammation of liver,
cerosis, all sorts of other problems
like dementia, etc., etc. So if I were
to tell you, well, the bourbon had
roughly about the same side effects as
the whiskey, so it's not any worse. that
would be considered safe. Yeah, that's
how they test these vaccines in
children. The argument that they make
against this to justify it is they don't
want to give a true placebo with
children because they consider that
harmful, right? Because they're not
giving something that can save their
life. My question is, how can you really
truly test the safety and effectiveness
of something if you're looking at the
relative safety of an active vaccine to
another active vaccine with adgivants?
that just muddies the water to this
whole safe and effective claim that you
keep hearing over and over and over
again. Has there ever been any drugs
that were safe and effective by the
general consensus that then turned out
to be dangerous? And the answer is a big
fat yes. I'll give you a few. Vio 60,000
excess deaths. Paxel was considered safe
and effective until they found out it
really spiked self harm incidents. And
that company who actually had Paxel was
sued for $3 billion. What about trans
fats? It's been around for 90 or 100
years. You have asbestous just like now
you have the gross generally recognized
as safe, right? The industry controls
that. It's not even an independent FDA
review at all. How can something so safe
end up to be so dangerous? When research
is done, the raw data that that research
is based on is not openly disseminated,
it's withheld. So a big farmer does a
study and they have this raw data and
they can kind of keep it confidential.
How do we know that the summary of that
data that ends up in some research
project is not minimizing the harms and
maximizing the benefits? We don't we
can't know that until it's subpoenaed
and we can eventually get the
information. The other loophole which I
think should really be addressed is
this. Did you know that 87%
of all big pharma sponsored studies are
unpublished? If a study doesn't turn out
maybe how they want it, they don't have
to publish it. Potentially they could
actually just publish the positive
studies, the ones that turn out good for
that particular drug. New health
guidelines are based on that. How
doctors perform medicine is based on
that data. How are we supposed to trust
the science when we can't get all of the
science? Just think about one thing.
Astrurfing. Astrurfing is setting up
fake front groups that appear to be the
general public talking about it. And I
actually want to share some of the names
with these front groups because boy,
they just sound so amazing. Right?
Here's one. Citizens for Patient Safety.
Sounds wonderful. Here's one.
Partnership to Protect Patient Health,
America Action Network, Doctors for
America, and a lot of them uh are
coordinated to put various PR uh
campaigns out against RFK. We need
radical transparency all over the place.
This way, it'll make it very difficult
to manipulate data. I mean, it's just
wild to me. They'll say that RFK is not
a doctor. He's not fit to be in charge
of HHS. He's just an attorney that, you
know, went after corrupt big pharma
corporations and sued them for billions
of dollars. Hello. Isn't that what we
need? So, my viewpoint is we don't
really have a science problem. We never
did. We have an ethics problem. Please
comment down below and tell me your
thoughts and opinions about this topic.
And since we're on the topic of
corruption, um if you have not seen this
video on the corruption in the food
industry, you have to check it out.
Click right here.
