Today we're going to talk about how to
reverse hair loss. And I'm also going to
get into the number one best meal if you
want to grow your hair. The most common
cause of hair loss is androgenic. And
I'm going to explain what that is, but
that involves a pattern baldness where
if it's a man, they're going to actually
lose their hair on the top right here.
In a female, it's more thinning hair
through here. How could someone possibly
grow hair on their chin but then lose
the hair up here? In fact, I have a
perfect example of this right here. If I
take this gentleman right here, you can
see Oh, let's just take this off right
here. He has all this hair right through
here and right there, but nothing right
here. Today, we're going to answer why
that is. So, let's just build a little
foundation. This is one of your hairs
right through here. We have the scalp
right here. And around the hair, there's
something called a follicle. What is a
follicle? Follicle is not the hair. It's
a little environment around the hair
that has a tiny factory that helps the
hair grow. And what's very unique about
this follicle is it requires a
tremendous amount of oxygen and also the
energy factories that come along with
it, which is mitochondria.
As we age, hormones do decrease. One
hormone that decreases is testosterone,
both in men and women.
But there's another hormone, a more
powerful version of testosterone that
tends to go up as we age, and that's
called DHT.
And quite a few different medications
that help you grow your hair work by
inhibiting or decreasing this type of
testosterone called DHT. So they're DHT
inhibitors. In your body, testosterone
is converted into DHT. So in this
situation, as we get older, we end up
with lower testosterone and a bit higher
DHT. We need it. It actually affects our
libido, but we don't need excessive
amounts of it. And if we get too much
DHT, then the hairs stop growing. We get
a lack of oxygen. We get more
inflammation in our scalp. We get more
scar tissue because of that lack of
oxygen and because of the inflammation.
And once the scar tissue develops around
this follicle, then the hairs stop
growing and even the skin on the scalp
becomes very shiny because of all the
scar tissue. And so that's the basic
mechanism behind this andogenic pattern
baldness. But it doesn't really tell us
why this DHT is going so high. Is it
just age? No. I'm 6 years old. I have no
hair loss. The gentleman you just saw is
maybe a little bit older and he lost his
hair years ago. So, is this all
genetics? And if we talk about the
genetic piece of this puzzle, we're
talking about more of this enzyme being
activated. And we're also talking about
just the receptor for this hormone is
just more sensitive. And this is why
it's so important to understand the
mechanism of all the things that can
increase this DHT because even if you
have a genetic problem, there's still
things you can do to keep this down as
low as possible. Now, the problem with
using a drug to lower that is, yes, it
can actually help you get your hair
back, but there's some slight minor
complications as far as side effects go.
You start losing your libido. You get
erectile dysfunction because they're
creating a major shutdown of this
hormone through the entire body. What is
the primary driver of DHT? Beyond
getting older, beyond just having
genetics that make this hormone more
sensitive, what is it? Well, the
strongest driver is insulin resistance,
which is not surprising because insulin
resistance is a root cause to so many
different health issues. If you have
insulin resistance, you're going to
express more of this enzyme and convert
more testosterone to DHT. And on top of
that, insulin resistance really affects
the liver to the point where you're not
able to buffer or control this
testosterone like you should. And that
increases more free testosterone that
then makes more DHT.
And all that comes from insulin
resistance. But now let's get into
probably one of the most overlooked
therapies for hair loss. question is,
can we just lower insulin resistance or
can we just give you a natural enzyme
inhibitor and mimic the effects of drugs
but without the side effect? And the
answer is probably not. There's
something way more important and it has
to do with that follicle I talked about.
What you need to fix is the follicle
environment, the entire environment.
Because what they can do now is they can
transplant hair on the back of your head
to the top or from other places in your
body on the top of your head. But they
only can do it if they transplant the
follicle, not the hair itself, but the
actual thing that the hair comes in.
It's kind of like the soil that allows
the root to grow. It's an entire
ecosystem. It's an environment that you
have to look at. And excessive DHT does
start this cascade going. But then what
happens is a whole bunch of things. You
have decreased oxygen and then we have
this condition without oxygen. It's
called hypoxia. And that can actually
create inflammation. So now we have this
entire ecosystem that's inflamed that
then develops a repairerative process in
scar tissue and then it becomes very
shiny and you're bald. One of the most
overlooked therapies that is very
effective is number four, mechanical
stimulation of your scalp. Because what
you have to do is you have to wake up
these stem cells. You have to break down
the scar tissue. And there's many
different methods of doing this. A lot
of people do like invasive massage on
their scalp. Uh but the one that really
is the most effective is micro needling.
Micro needling is very similar to what I
did in one of my pastures in part of my
farm. I had to kind of break up the soil
so then water can get in there, oxygen
can get in there, the seed can go in
there. Micro needling allows you to open
up the scalp so it gets oxygen so it can
start to repair. So we stimulate the
repair process so we can reactivate the
stem cells into the tissues at the
cellular level. Okay, deep in the
follicle you have mitochondria. But the
problem is those mitochondria are kind
of broken down and are not working
anymore. So we have to stimulate the
mitochondria. Partly it's going to be
the micro needling, but partly it's
going to be another therapy and that's
called red or near infrared light
therapy. This is some really cool stuff
that has some massive research behind it
because when you throw a light with this
spectrum between 630 and 850 uh NMS,
which is a wavelength into your scalp,
you're basically going to help restore
the mitochondria. And they're also doing
therapies right now with red light
therapy for your eyes to improve
eyesight because it stimulates more
mitochondria. And what we're trying to
do from this mitochondria is get more
energy out of the mitochondria. So now
we have the energy to grow hair. A lot
of the medications for hair loss inhibit
that enzyme I talked about to decrease
DHT
except for ro gain which is a very
common medication. Roane does not work
by blocking DHT. Roane works by creating
a vasoddilation or more circulation
because in order to grow that hair, you
need oxygen in your scalp. Out of all
the things that can mimic roane or at
least get somewhat close to it, rosemary
oil is at the top of the list. The
phytonutrients in rosemary oil greatly
improve circulation. They also decrease
that DHT. They reduce inflammation and
they help protect the mitochondria. So,
we're adding layers to this problem and
we're compounding the effectiveness so
we can really get your hair back. Now,
if you just did number four, five, and
six, I still think it wouldn't work
unless you also fix the original reason
why the hair uh fell out in the first
place, which involves one, two, three.
So, we cannot forget to also correct
insulin resistance. We must correct
this. There's some really key nutrients
that can help speed up the the growth of
the hair. That's zinc and vitamin D.
These two nutrients, hands down, are the
two most important things to stimulate
the stem cells or stimulate the growth
factors of that hair. And I would
recommend taking no less than 10,000. I
use vitamin D3 every day. As far as
zinc, I would recommend something like
30 or 40 uh milligrams. And then number
three are additional u inhibitors of
that enzyme. If you wanted to add some
more things, I'm not suggesting you do
that, but I'm just going to tell you all
the things that act as the natural five
alpha reductase inhibitors. So you maybe
you've heard of salt palmetto, that's a
common one. pumpkin seed oil, the
phytonutrient and green tea, EGCG,
peppermint oil is a powerful one, and
I've already mentioned zinc. So, I'll
put some links down below, but I also
wanted to give you uh an idea of
probably
one of the best meals that you could
consume to support your hair from a
nutrient standpoint. And that would be
liver, number one. Okay? Of course,
onions number two, because you really
don't want to eat liver without onions.
They kind of come together. But what's
in liver that supports your hair is a
very bioavailable iron called heem iron,
which the hair needs. Liver also has
zinc and copper and other trace minerals
like selenium. And then of course,
onions. Onions are super high in
corsetin, which is a very powerful
anti-inflammatory.
And then we have sauerkraut. Why
sauerkraut? Sauerkraut not only helps
fortify the gut, but sauerkraut has like
literally the most vitamin C out of
anything. It's like 700 milligrams per
half of a cup. Sauerkraut has over 600
different phytonutrients, which help the
hair in many different ways, including
decreasing the DHT. And lastly, we can't
forget pumpkin seeds because not only
can pumpkin seed give you enough
magnesium and trace minerals, pumpkin
seeds and pumpkin seed oil also act as a
pretty powerful five alpha reductase
inhibitor to help lower uh that DHT.
However, at the foundation of this
problem, we still have insulin
resistance. This is probably what
started the whole problem in the first
place. And because of that, the absolute
most important video for you to watch
right now is how to reverse insulin
resistance. And I put this video up
right here. Check it out, watch it, and
apply this information.
