When did cholesterol actually become a
disease? High cholesterol is dangerous,
right? LDL, the bad cholesterol clogs
your arteries. Lower cholesterol is
always better. Statins save lives. But
here's the question that a lot of people
don't ask about this. Is it actually
safe to have lower cholesterol? Does
that mean you're actually healthier?
Well, let's just take a look at it. Our
bodies make 3,000 milligs of cholesterol
every single day. Why would our bodies
make that much cholesterol if
cholesterol was so damaging and
dangerous? In fact, if you don't eat
foods with cholesterol, your body makes
more. Babies are born with higher
cholesterol. Your brain is full of
cholesterol. I mean, let me ask you
this. Do you really think human beings
have evolved over 200,000 years making
something as a precursor that turns into
cell membranes, hormones, vitamin D,
bile salts, something that actually
repairs the body structurally makes up
the brain, helps support the immune
system. Our body has used cholesterol in
so many different ways. Cholesterol is
not a poison. It's a building block.
It's essential in making the cell
membranes. Okay, without these
membranes, you can't have receptors for
hormones to work. Without cell
membranes, you can't have things go in
and out of the cell properly. Without
these membranes, you can't have the
brain and nervous system activate.
Without these membranes, you can't
repair. And when a doctor measures your
cholesterol, they're looking at the
cholesterol in the blood. They're not
actually looking at cholesterol deep in
the cells where all the work is really
being done. So if you think about
cholesterol, cholesterol is kind of like
inside these little packages of these
protein delivery trucks. And the two
main types of cholesterol that people
focus on are HDL and the LDL. The HDL is
the delivery truck where we're taking
the cholesterol from the cells and
bringing it back to the liver to then
get recycled. And then the LDL is the
packaging or the truck that delivers
cholesterol to the cells. And people
associate LDL with the bad cholesterol.
But you have to realize there's two
types of LDL. You have the small dense
LDL particle size. And then you also
have the large buoyant, the bigger
particle size LDL. And unless you get an
advanced lipid profile test, they don't
really look at this right here. The
small dense LDL are the type that can go
into the cells and create inflammation
and problems. But that usually happens
when your glucose is high and you have
insulin problems and you have
inflammation and you're eating poorly.
When you're on a low carb diet and you
don't have insulin resistance, you're
going to have more large buoyant LDL
which is not going to invade the inside
of the arteries. So, this is why it's so
important to get an advanced lipid
profile test to look at the ratios of
how many of this versus this right here
because if you have high LDL, but it's
of this type, this particle size, this
is not pathogenic. Okay? So, you don't
have to worry about it. When someone
does have high cholesterol in general,
you have to really think about why that
could be. Number one, you could be going
through stress because part of the raw
material or the building blocks or the
precursors for cortisol hormone, which
is a stress hormone, is cholesterol. And
you just might need more raw material to
make more of those hormones to cope with
the stress. Also, testosterone is made
from cholesterol. So, when someone gets
on an anti- cholesterol drug to block
the production of cholesterol, they're
going to have a lot of problems with
their muscles because they're going to
block the formation of testosterone,
which actually is needed for your
muscles. But not only that, statin also
blocks something called co-enzyme Q10. I
talk about that in another video. I'll
put that link down below. I have a free
download that I want to give to you.
This free download is my daily routine
and a checklist. This is the routine
that I use every day to feel like I'm 18
years old even though I'm 60 years old.
And I want to give it to you for free.
And so there's a little link down below.
Click it and definitely download that.
But when you have low cholesterol,
you're not going to be able to make as
much bile. So you can't really get the
full absorption of fats. You're not
going to have enough raw material to
make vitamin D. Think about this. Sun
hits your skin. It turns the cholesterol
in your skin to vitamin D. If you don't
have enough cholesterol, you can't make
enough vitamin D. Vitamin D is one of
the most important vitamins that you
could possibly have. There are just as
many, if not more problems with low
cholesterol as there are with high
cholesterol, but that's an area that we
really don't talk about. In fact, I've
never heard this before of a doctor
saying, "Oh, your cholesterol is too
low. We have to increase it." In
reality, high cholesterol is not a
disease. Your body makes cholesterol. If
your cholesterol is high, it's important
to understand why it's high. But that
just explains what's happening way
downstream or the consequence of
something else over here. I don't know
if you knew this, but if you eat a lot
of refined sugar and starches, your
cholesterol will go up from that because
that starch will convert into
cholesterol. That could be one reason
that's a root cause. Your triglycerides
are going to go up if your dietary
sugars and starches are high as well. If
you have more inflammation, the need for
cholesterol goes way up as well. If your
body needs more repair, your cholesterol
will go up. This is simple biochemistry
and it's so important not to think
cholesterol is a disease. It's something
our body makes. It's a necessary
precursor and you really need to know
the whole picture. Millions and millions
of people are on statins right now
because they're afraid that the high
cholesterol is going to damage their
hearts. If high cholesterol is actually
killing people, then older adults with
higher cholesterol would be dying first.
But you don't see that. Some of the
oldest people alive have high
cholesterol. There is no association
between people with high cholesterol and
higher rates of dying. Low cholesterol
in older adults is linked to higher
rates of death from all causes. So, a
lot of people ask me, "What supplements
do I recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not
biased of my own high-quality supplement
line, but if you go to Amazon and type
Dr. Bberg supplements, you'll find more
information. So low cholesterol does not
equal safe. It doesn't equal longevity.
Lower cholesterol is linked to lowered
immunity,
depression, memory problems, hormone
problems. Remember, your brain is mostly
fat. You starve it of cholesterol and
it's going to suffer. In nature,
cholesterol goes up in the winter. One
reason could be because you need to make
more vitamin D, but then the summer
comes, it goes down. Why? One theory of
that is because that sunlight is turning
your cholesterol into vitamin D. And so,
if that's true, if you're out of the sun
and you're living indoors all the time,
cholesterol is going to build up because
you get no conversion into these other
things like vitamin D. So, it's kind of
like a permanent winter all the time.
So, we keep asking the wrong question.
How can we keep pushing cholesterol
lower and lower and lower? But we never
ask the real question. Is it safe to
live with low cholesterol? Cholesterol
is not the enemy. It's something that
our bodies create because our bodies
have been making cholesterol for a very
long time. It's not the enemy. It's not
a disease. In fact, it's a protection
against a lot of problems. And if you
want some more details on this LDL, I
have a wonderful video that explains it
very simply right here. Check it out.
