I'm going to share with you today the
ugly truth about yogurt. But before I
kind of dive into the yogurt, there's
one really important concept that you
need to know about consuming cultured or
fermented products, especially yogurt.
When you consume yogurt, you might think
that that bacteria is going to go into
your large intestine and start to build
it back up. They call that receding.
Well, the first thing you need to know
is that is extremely extremely rare.
There's only a very few strains of
bacteria that actually can go in there
and recede your gut. And those microbes
that can recede are rarely in any of
your yogurt to start with. Number two,
your gut is already densely populated
with microbes. Okay? And they're very
territorial. They don't want anyone else
to come into their space. They form this
protective barrier called colonization
resistant barrier. And so the question
is what is the real benefit of yogurt
and other fermented products if it's not
to recede the gut microbiome?
Well, the real benefit is to change the
environment, the pH, the level of
oxygen, the food that they eat, and
something called the metabolites. and
they're basically a substance to allow
them to survive a lot better in that
environment. When you change the
environment for the better for these
microbes, you activate dormant microbes
that are already there. They're microbes
that have been suppressed by
antibiotics, junk food, or whatever. You
see, from birth, you've been given
microbes from breast milk, hopefully if
you were breastfed. and the food that
you ate, all these microbes kind of came
in there and then maybe you had an
antibiotic and you ate junk food and
then the time goes on and a lot of these
microbes have gone into this dormant
state and some of them have gotten into
a spore state very similar to like in
the winter. I live in a farm and the
grass isn't growing in the winter,
right? If you dig into the soil, like
the microbes are either frozen or
they're in a spore formation, but
they're not necessarily alive in the
winter because it's too cold, then
they're going to wait for that
environment to be a lot better before
they come out. So, in other words,
chances are you might have a lot of the
good bacteria that you need already in
your gut in a dormant state. So, when
you change the environment, they get
reactivated. They start growing. they
start to overtake the bad bacteria and
now you shifted the entire microbiome
balance. And I really want you to
understand that because the terrain, the
soil, the environment is so important.
It's even probably more important than
the microbes because if you don't know
that, you know, you could be taking
probiotics, you could be taking all this
fermented food, but it doesn't really do
anything because the environment is not
good enough to allow them to live. A lot
of the dormant microbes are what's
called keystone microbes. They're the
ones that kind of keep the bad guys in
check, but they're usually dormant if
the environment is not right. Now that
you have that basic, let's talk about
yogurt. Okay, most commercial yogurt.
When you go in a grocery store, you look
at all these yogurts, and rarely do you
look at the ingredients, but if you did,
you're going to be shocked. A couple
points I want to make just about yogurt.
Some of the yogurt has what's called
postpeurization.
They start with this pasteurized milk
that's heated that has no bacteria and
then they add the bacteria and then they
heat it again. So basically you're
eating the dead corpse of bacteria
because it's been double pasteurized. So
unless it says live and active cultures,
it's been double pasteurized. That's one
thing. Number two,
if we compare fermentation to typical
yogurt or yogurt that you would ferment
at home, there's a huge difference,
okay? and the fermentation time. And
fermentation is where you're just
putting microbes in something like milk
and you're allowing to eat and grow and
become more concentrated. Well,
typically the commercial yogurt
fermentss for 1 to two hours whereas the
traditional yogurts you might do 8 to 12
hours to 24 hours to sometimes 36 hours.
So you have this super concentrated
probiotic. And so when you see at the
label it has so many billions or
millions CFUs, it's kind of like little
colonies of bacteria and then they
instead of counting the individual
bacteria, they'll kind of give an
estimate of how much bacteria that's in
there. And they made certain estimates
that you need at least 100 million of
those CFUs to create some type of an
effect on the body. But the problem is
maybe they start out with a 100 million
CFUs when they make it, but once it's
shipped, it's sitting on the shelf, and
by the time you buy it, the chances of
you having those 100 million is less
than winning the lottery. Okay? You're
going to have a lot less. In fact, there
was a study that I saw in 2017 that
tested yogurt in Europe after 6 weeks,
and there basically is no viable
bacteria left. So, what kills the
bacteria? Number one, the sugar. High
fructose corn syrup or modified food
starch, which basically is hidden sugar.
All of that sugar creates this severe
dehydration to the bacteria. And then
they add all sorts of pectin and gels
and garum. They keep it kind of stuck in
one place. It can't move. It can't
really do anything. It can't get
nutrition. So then it just dies. And
that is because when you start making
yogurt, it takes some time to actually
have the yogurt thicken, right? And
change all the proteins. Well, they're
doing shortcuts. So, with one or two
hours, you're not going to have thick
yogurt. So, then you're going to have to
make it thicker with all these different
things to change the texture like the
modified food starch or carrageenan or
polyorbate 80, which by the way, these
two things start to diminish that
mucosal layer to the point where you can
actually then get a problem with leaky
gut and inflammation your gut. So, here
you are thinking, I'm going to take
something that's good for my gut when
it's actually going to be harmful for
your gut. And then what about the
artificial sweeteners, right? Artificial
sweeteners have been known to alter the
gut microbiome. And also, if you read
the ingredients, sometimes it'll say
contains bioengineered food ingredients.
That's another name for GMO, which could
potentially mean it has traces of that
Roundup Ready glyphosate, which by the
way, it's been patented as an
antibiotic. And if it's true that
there's traces of an herbicide in there
and you're taking this antibiotic, which
is supposed to be a probiotic, that's
not good. But I think it's really
important the next time you buy yogurt
to read the ingredients. I'm going to
just read some ingredients of a very
common yogurt that you would get at the
store. First ingredient is cultured
grade a reduced fat milk. Of course,
they have to start with, you know,
reduced fat milk. They had strawberry in
there, sugar, fructose, water, modified
food starch, milk protein concentrate,
modified cornstarch, kosher, gelatin,
natural flavors, ager, which is another
gum, carrageenan, carmine.
Carmine is for coloring, and carmine
comes from insects. And by the way,
sometimes they'll promote a good source
of vitamin D, but if you look up the
amounts on it, you're talking about only
80 international units, okay? The
tiniest amount of vitamin D that you
could possibly imagine. So, if you think
about this, this is a $45 billion
industry with yogurt. And the great
majority of it is sweetened and they add
all these different things. It is
nothing remotely close to traditional
yogurt or cultured milk products that
they've used in other countries in
Turkey, in Greece, in India where they
ferment this product a lot longer. The
product doesn't have added sugar and it
has a lot more concentration of micros
because you fermented it. Now let's just
get back to the sugar. How much sugar is
in a 4oz thing of yogurt and it's 25
gram? Now, actually, I lied. There's
actually 19 grams of actual sugar, but
the rest is modified corn starch, which
actually is hidden sugar because it's
going to turn into sugar. So, it really
is 25 gram of sugar. So, this perception
that it's a health food, it's actually
no, it's a junk food. And we give it to
our kids and we put it into lunches and
we think it's healthy. You really have
to realize all this other stuff is super
super unhealthy. And that sugar is going
to feed the pathogens. You just need to
be aware when you consume typical
commercial yogurt, you are getting less
microbes and probably the tap water that
you're drinking. Is there a yogurt that
is good to consume? And the answer is
yes. But realize that your purpose
should be changing of the environment.
So let's just first mention about
probiotics. Probiotics do contain a a
lot more microbes than yogurt and other
fermented products. And a lot of times
these microbes are freeze-dried. So
they're basically preserved in a way
that they're in this spore formation and
then when they get into your body, they
do tend to get down to the large
intestine. And if you take them
repetitively, they can recede the gut,
but if you just have a one-shot deal,
maybe they'll spike up and they they go
away. And simply because they're just a
lot more concentrated. They're like a
100 to a thousand times more
concentrated. So, there's a lot of
probiotics that are good that do tend to
pass the stomach level, but also you got
to look on the label to see if they can
resist the stomach acids. And the next
question is, what about kefir? What is
kefir? Kefir is like yogurt. It's a
little bit thinner. It's a little bit
more sour. But kefir is a lot better
than yogurt if you just compare them
side by side. And I do both. I do a
certain type of yogurt, like Bulgarian
yogurt, and I also make my own yogurt,
which I'm going to explain shortly. But
I also have kefir. And kefir has a
combination of bacteria and yeast.
Whereas yogurt only has the bacteria,
only a few strains, maybe two or three.
But kefir has sometimes up to 50
strains. And so when you buy actual
yogurt,
you don't want all this stuff in there.
Or find some yogurt that is from
grass-fed cows or sheep or even a goat.
You want whole milk, but you do not want
it flavored. You don't want any
sweetener in there. And you don't want
any carrageenan or artificial
sweeteners. The goal should be to change
the environment in your gut with that
yogurt and reactivate the microbes that
are already there. Now in your appendix
and in other places in your gut, you do
have a reserve of microbes
that can recede your gut when the
environment is correct. Okay? So you do
have different places where your body
protects this reservoir of microbes and
it's just waiting for the right
environment. And yogurt can be one way
to get it. Kefir could be another way.
And of course, on top of that, you
really got to change the diet. You want
to clean up the diet. But let me tell
you about another fermented product
that'll take your gut to the next level,
and that is sauerkraut. Don't get the
stuff on the shelf that's pasteurized
because it's heated. You're killing off
the microbes. Let me tell you what's in
this sauerkraut. There's a lot of what's
called polyphenols in the cabbage
itself. Polyphenols are literally one of
the best foods for the gut microbiome.
They love it. Also, you're going to get
a lot of what's called postbiotics. So,
prebiotics are the fiber, that would be
like cabbage. Probiotics are the actual
microbes.
And then you have postbiotics, which are
all these additional things to support
the environment and help that microbe
survive better. You also have small
chain fatty acids to feed the colon
cells in there. Also, you have this
chemical sulfurophane, which I've done
videos on this. It's like an
anti-cancer. And there's also a lot of
organic acids like lactic acid to create
this amazing environment in your gut so
that those dormant suppressed microbes
can come out of remission and start to
do their job. Then you also have
glutamine, which is another thing that
your gut needs to heal. Glutamine is
also in meat, but it's also in cabbage.
But the really cool thing in sauerkraut
is this other compound called
smethionine.
This is another name for vitamin U. And
they named that after ulcers because
cabbage has a unique factor to help with
ulcers. It has the ability to help heal
the lining of the colon and it's highly
anti-inflammatory. If you consume
cabbage, okay, you're going to be
getting this. But when you consume
sauerkraut that's fermented,
you get three times the concentration of
this. One of the things that I recommend
is to consume the juice of this
sauerkraut. The juice is where you're
going to be getting a lot of this minus
the fiber. And if you consume regular
amounts of sauerkraut or fermented
vegetables or other things, you could
actually keep these microbes seated and
growing for a lot longer period of time.
I did a video on how to make something
called a cultured Elrutery micro and I
did a whole video on this and it went
viral and a lot of people like are doing
it all over the world and it's producing
amazing results with increasing your
oxytocin which increases your ability to
be social. It's helps your muscle mass.
It helps your mood. It helps lower
stress. And to learn more about this and
how to make it, I put this video up
right here. Check it out right now.
