Aging spots are not normal aging. We've
been lied to about aging spots. We're
told that age is what causes them or
we've been told that the sun causes
aging spots. Well, I have a question.
How come not everyone that goes out in
the sun gets them? And how come not
everyone that is getting older has them?
I know a lot of younger people that get
them. So, why is that? I'm going to show
you the exact mechanism of why you might
have them and exactly what to do to get
rid of them. and not by just
superficially getting rid of them
externally on the skin, but how to get
rid of them from the inside out. I'm
going to show you both methods. If you
look down on your hands or even in the
mirror, you might see these little brown
pigment sections or clusters. They call
that hyperpigmentation, and it wasn't
there several years ago, but now all of
a sudden, it just appeared. And if you
Google this, they're going to tell you
what creams or peels or lasers or
medications to use. They're not going to
reveal what's deeper, what causes these
things. And then if you use the cream or
the laser or the medication, it keeps
coming back. So, you have to keep using
it. There's side effects from certain
medications and creams and lasers. Some
of the medications make it worse. So,
I'm going to make this really simple.
I'm going to show you what's going on.
You have in your skin melanin. Okay?
Melanin is a pigment. It comes from a
certain cell called a melanocy. And this
pigment basically is a protective
umbrella to protect you against certain
things from the sun like ultraviolet
light, free radicals. So, it's there to
protect you. And this is why when you're
out in the sun, you eventually get a sun
tan or your skin becomes darker because
it adapts and it's protecting you. And
so, when you see this darker patch on
your skin, realize that is a protective
mechanism. So the more you understand
what this is, the more the solution is
going to become obvious. The problem is
not melanin. The problem is uneven
melanin production. It's not evened out
through the skin. It's only in certain
spots. So these little factories that
produce melanin are producing them
unevenly. So the regulator in that cell
is broken. So now you have that. There's
something called oxidative stress. Let
me just simply explain what that is.
That's an imbalance where you have too
much oxidation. You can look at
oxidation as like something that's
rusting out or corroding versus the
protective antioxidants. So when we have
this imbalance, then we get something
called excessive oxidative stress. And
the master system that controls that is
this right here, glutathione.
Glutathione has two big purposes. number
one to regulate melanin and it also
generally helps you reduce this
oxidation. So think about glutathione as
the circuit breaker that has blown a
circuit if you have these darkened spots
on your skin with melanin. So without
enough glutathione, you're going to get
uneven melanin production. So this next
part is very important. If you don't
have enough of this thing right here,
glutathione, you cannot regulate this
melanin. So now what's going to happen
next is your body has to adapt to that.
How does it adapt to that? It actually
makes more melanin. Melanin is really an
antioxidant if you think about it. And
so the reason why you're getting these
spots is you're getting too much of
this, but it's just uneven. That's the
simplicity of what's happening.
Combination of not enough this and too
much of this that's unregulated. So, a
lot of people ask me, "What supplements
do I recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not
biased of my own high-quality supplement
line, but if you go to Amazon and type
Dr. Berg supplements, you'll find more
information, but the bigger question is,
why does this glutathione drop? Now, it
is true that as you age, glutathione
does decrease. Not necessarily because
you're getting older, but because other
things that are supposed to keep this in
check are kind of going down. Now, what
are those things? selenium. And so many
people are deficient in selenium and
they don't even realize it. Even when
you go to get a blood test, most of the
selenium is not in your blood. You have
to do a specialized test to pick this
up. Selenium is also involved in your
immune system. Selenium is also key for
the thyroid, converting the inactive T4
to T3. Selenium is also important
protecting against autoimmune diseases,
especially Hashimoto's, which is a
thyroid problem. Selenium is nearly
always deficient in AIDS patients
because it's so important in the immune
system. But selenium is the precursor to
this one right here. Our soils have been
depleted of selenium because of the
farming practices. We only put three
minerals back in the soil. Also, we're
spraying a lot of our fields with
something called glyphosate, which also
depletes selenium as well. That's just
one of the many factors. But if you
consume just two Brazil nuts a day, you
will get enough selenium. Selenium is
also in shellfish. It's definitely in
oysters. The next thing that is really
needed to make more glutathione is high
quality protein. And a lot of people
have switched from doing animal protein
to plant protein, which is going to
create a problem for glutathione. You
want to go back to more high quality
animal meats, eggs, fish, and also
collagen. You don't really get as much
collagen in regular steak or hamburger
because people want like tender beef,
things like that. So unless you're
having the skin on the chicken or skin
on the fish, you really need to
substitute some type of collagen powder
in your coffee or as a supplement, not
just to build up your joints and
connective tissue, but also to help you
with glutathione. Also, if a female is
going through menopause, she's going to
have a problem with estrogen. This can
also trigger the body to increase the
demand for more glutathione because
estrogen also acts as an antioxidant. In
fact, the reason why women live to be
older than men is because they have more
of this estrogen which acts as a
protective thing over your DNA and other
things. This is why you see women after
menopause getting more of these aging
spots when again it's not just aging.
This is the mechanism right here.
Chronic stress will also deplete your
glutathione. Glutathione is needed more
when you go through stress. And I'm not
just talking about mental stress. I'm
talking about physical stress, more
exercise that you're doing combined with
less sleep. Also, toxicity in your body,
chronic consumption of carbohydrates,
snacking, refined foods, junk foods, all
of that just builds this up right here
and depletes this right here. The other
little piece of the puzzle is copper.
Now, I'm going to make this really
simple. Copper is another trace mineral
that helps you make melanin. And you can
have a problem with melanin if you have
too much copper or actually not enough
copper. And one regulating factor of
copper is zinc. So zinc and copper work
together. So when people are either
deficient in zinc, they might have too
much copper, or they have too much zinc,
they might not have enough copper. So in
other words, taking more zinc many times
will help the ratio of copper help this
right here. And of course, if you had a
trace mineral that had both, that can
also support this problem as well
because then you'll have the right
ratios. So this is ultimately what you
want to do to fix this problem. So then
you can correct this problem and this
problem and eventually get rid of these
aging spots. It could take 30 days to
six weeks because these dark spots are
kind of in a certain layer of your skin
that has to be replaced. But you'll see
within 1 month to 6 weeks things will
dramatically start improving. Now the
question is what can you do in the
meantime? Is there anything you can do?
Yes, there is. There's a lot of things
topically you can put on your face. Some
of them have side effects. I'm not going
to talk about those. One of the best
things I would recommend is just a
topical serum. Vitamin C. You can get a
high quality vitamin C serum anywhere
and you would just put that on your skin
because vitamin C does help regulate
glutathione and it doesn't seem to have
any side effects that I've ever heard
of. So I gave you two solutions. One is
more of a corrective which takes more
time and another is a topical situation
which will happen faster. But I don't
want you just to do the topical without
doing this as well because it's going to
keep coming back. Since this whole topic
is related to pigment and pigment adapts
to the sun, there is some crucial very
important information on the benefit and
the health of sun so that way you don't
make the mistake of avoiding the sun.
And for that information, you should
watch this video right here. Check it
out.
