In this video, we're going to talk about
why you should never get your
gallbladder removed unless you
absolutely positively need to. Today,
I'm going to talk about six lies that
the surgeons will tell you that you need
to know the truth about. I'm also going
to get into the best foods to consume if
you have a gallbladder problem.
Gallbladder removal is one of the most
common surgeries done, especially in the
US. And I think if I'm not mistaken,
there's over 3,000 gallbladder removal
surgeries every single day in the United
States. What is the gallbladder and what
does it do? Is it just this little sack
that sits underneath your liver that
stores bile? And the answer is no. It
has a lot of important functions. First
of all, the bile is made by the liver
and then it trickles down a little tube
and it gets stored in this little sack
called the gallbladder. Okay, so number
one, the gallbladder is a storage of
bile. Okay, and it's a place where bile
gets concentrated. Why do you need it to
be concentrated? Well, because when you
eat food, the gallbladder is supposed to
contract and release all this bile to
help you break down fats. Then the
pancreas right here can release its
enzymes to take it to the next level.
And I'm not just talking about fat. I'm
talking about the fats soluble vitamins,
vitamin A, D, E, K1, K2. I'm also
talking about omega-3 fatty acids. To be
able to extract any of that from your
food, you're going to need bile. And
that's one of the purposes of the
gallbladder to concentrate it. If you
don't have a gallbladder, your liver
still makes it, but there's no storage.
it just trickles down this little tube
into the small intestine. So, number
one, that's going to be an issue with
your digestion and your ability to get
these important fats. The second purpose
of the gallbladder is it helps you
regulate the bile release. So, that way
you're getting bile when you need it and
not getting bile when you don't need it.
The third thing that the gallbladder
does is help you regulate excess
cholesterol. Do you realize that the
gallbladder and its bile are the primary
uh regulators of excess cholesterol? And
a lot of people have an issue with
cholesterol, but they never check the
gallbladder. Instead, they're put on a
medication. Next thing is an
antimicrobial function in that
gallbladder. This concentrated bile
helps break down certain bacteria and
certain viruses. Also, the gallbladder
in its bile helps control hunger. or it
helps your blood sugar uh get regulated.
Next one is detoxification.
Uh the toxins that come from the liver
uh get help from the bile to help get
rid of these toxins. Also, bile helps
trigger one of the most powerful
antioxidants that you have from your
liver called glutathione. So, you can
see the gallbladder is more than just a
sack. The bile can also influence your
thyroid because it can trigger your
thyroid hormones to make them work
better. This is why people with a
hypothyroid problem that they end up
taking more bile salts or or improving
the bile salts, which I'm going to
explain how to do, will then improve the
function of the thyroid. And so, if
you're low on thyroid hormones, that
could be the reason why you have
gallbladder issues or even gall stones.
Gallstones are one of the big reasons
why people remove the gallbladder. Well,
what is a stone? A gall stone is a super
concentrated cholesterol stone usually.
Okay. So, it's made from too much
cholesterol. So, should we just lower
our cholesterol? Now, there's another
piece of the puzzle that you really need
to know. It's a high level of super
concentrated cholesterol with a very low
amount of bile salts and then that
equals a formation of a gall stone. So
in reality, stones come from a lack of
bile. Let's now get into certain lies
surgeons will tell people that are
absolutely not true. But let's start
with number one. Uh there are no other
options when you have a gallbladder
issue. Right? Your gallbladder is
killing you. You need to remove it.
There are no other options. That is a
lie. There are other options. You have
oral bile salts. That's right. Just
taking bile salts. In one study I read
50% of the people had the gallstones
dissolved within two years. In another
study it was just under 80% within six
to 12 months. There's other forms of
therapy too. Here's one EDTA. This is a
chilator. A chelator means claw. And you
could take it and it connects to calcium
and other minerals and it locks it up
and it pulls it out of the body. And I
do want to emphasize this. The oral bile
salts have very little side effects,
especially compared to the removal of
the gallbladder. There's also another
alternative, mechanical extraction of
the gall stone without taking the
gallbladder out. I'm not saying that you
shouldn't do surgery under certain
circumstances because it could be
life-threatening. You need a complete
informed consent where you know all of
the options and all of the risks and all
the side effects. And the last one is
lithotripsy. This is using sound waves
to break down the gallstone. Number two,
a gallbladder that makes gallstones is
diseased. Is it really a disease or is
it a symptom of something else? Does a
doctor ever tell you what causes
gallstones? Unfortunately, they don't
get a lot of information about food
therapy, especially in relationship to
how that affects the gallbladder and the
bile release. And so, that's why I'm
doing this video. Number three, you
cannot prevent gallstones by the diet.
So, let's say for example, you're
getting some consultation with the
doctor and you're asking about diet and
they tell you that u diet really doesn't
have a lot to do with it. Well, then I
would ask them, what does cause
gallstones, right? How can you be so
convinced that the root cause of a gall
stone can't be related to the diet when
the gallbladder in its bile is part of
your digestive system? What else would
cause that? It's kind of like common
sense. Number four, removal of the
gallbladder does not result in
complications. Wow, that's interesting
because there are a lot of people that
I've known in even in practice that had
massive complications when they had
their gallbladder removed. Even in one
study, it was up to 40% of people who
had their gallbladder out had at least
one or more symptoms
even up to 25 years after that
extraction of the gallbladder. What are
some of the common symptoms? diarrhea,
gastritis, depression, anxiety,
increased risk of cancer. If you have
your gallbladder removed, your risk of
colon cancer goes up by 11%.
The risk of liver cancer goes up by 60%.
The risk of pancreatic cancer goes up by
22%. And the risk of bile duct cancer
goes up by 45%. And the question is why?
Well, when you have the gallbladder
removed, now we no longer have a
regulation of that concentrated bile.
But one of the big ones is bile acid
malabsorption.
That usually occurs because we have now
a situation where we have excess bile
draining from the liver into the small
intestine. So now you're put on a
medication that tends to slow down the
bile release. And that's not without
side effects because now the side
effects from that are constipation,
a whole series of other issues. Number
five, postc colisectomy syndrome is
controversial. No, it's not
controversial. Look it up in Wikipedia.
Uh there's a lot of problems when they
remove that gallbladder. Number six,
even if the gallstone results from
pregnancy, you still need the surgery.
Now, if someone tells you that, I would
definitely get a second opinion because
estrogen has a huge influence on the
gallstone. And as soon as you get
through your pregnancy and estrogen
normalizes, is the gallstone going to
stay there or is it going to go away?
Same thing with birth control pills,
right? You have this spike in estrogen
and all of a sudden you end up with a
gall stone. Well, it's estrogen.
Estrogen inhibits the production of bile
salts and the release of bile salts from
your gallbladder. That's what it does.
Another one is just having extra weight.
The more weight you have, the more
you're at risk for a gallstone because
when you're overweight, you have other
issues as well, like you have blood
sugar issues. And this is why being a
diabetic puts you at risk for gallstones
as well. But the biggest reason why
people have gallstones, the elephant in
the room is high levels of insulin,
especially if you have insulin
resistance. I've done probably over 300
videos on insulin resistance, how it
causes a fatty liver, weight gain, high
blood pressure. What's going to happen
is your liver is not going to make
enough bile, and the gallbladder itself
is going to be weak. It's not going to
be able to contract fully to release
that bile. And how is that created?
Well, the person is consuming too many
carbohydrates or sugars, seed oils, and
they're eating too frequently, too. And
here's another point that supports that.
People that do intermittent fasting,
they don't eat very frequently, have
more concentrated bile that helps
dissolve the stone. And this is why one
of the big root causes and important
actions to correct gallstones is to get
on a low carb diet and do intermittent
fasting. Super super important. You have
two different types of bile. You have
the bile that's made by the liver, but
you also have bile that's made by your
microbes. Anything that destroys the
microbes as in an antibiotic
can also affect your bile. When people
get an antibiotic,
they're more at risk for a gall stone.
When people get an antibiotic, they gain
more weight because one of the symptoms
of the removal of the gallbladder is
weight gain, which is fascinating.
Another cause of lowered amount of bile
is going on a low-fat diet or a low
cholesterol diet. Because guess what
makes bile? Cholesterol. That's where it
comes from. And if you're not putting
any cholesterol in at all, you could be
deficient and you're not going to be
able to make bile. This is why people
that are on a low-fat diet are more at
risk for a gall stone than people that
are not on a low-fat diet. Fascinating.
And this brings up another question.
What type of fat encourages the liver to
make more bile or synthesize more bile
out of all the fats possible? Because
there's a lot of different types of
fats. Well, apparently it's fatty fish
that have the most potent effect on the
bile production, which is it makes sense
from an evolutionary standpoint because
in that fatty fish, you have something
that's super important. DHA, that's an
omega-3 fatty acid, but there's other
fatty acids, too, from meat and even
olive oil. Of course, I would not
recommend uh the seed oils because
that's going to create inflammation. But
the other thing that triggers the liver
to make more bile is cholesterol foods,
butter, eggs, shellfish, seafood, liver.
And it just so happens that egg yolks
and liver are high in choline. Choline
is another key nutrient to help make
bile. In fact, if you took choline as a
supplement, it's kind of like taking a
type of bile to help you digest fats.
Now, we talked about the liver, but are
there things to help you contract the
gallbladder so you can stimulate the
gallbladder to release more bile? Well,
that would also be some of these fats I
talked about and proteins, but also
other things too like bitter greens,
arugula, radish, even celery. Maybe add
some sauerkraut to increase the bacteria
so you can make additional bile salts to
help purge that bile and help you
digest. Even also the citrus like in
lemon and limes can also help purge that
bile too. And taking more acid and
adding apple cider vinegar or betain
hydrochloride can also increase the
acidity which will then trigger the
release of the bile from the gallbladder
because you need a strong acid in your
stomach to be able to trigger that and a
lack of acid could be the reason why
things aren't flowing through there as
well. So in other words, your stomach
problem is causing the gallbladder
problem. So you really have to kind of
connect the dots. Certain herbs can also
increase the contraction of the
gallbladder like turmeric, ginger, milk
thistle, parsley, cilantro. And as a
side note, if someone goes through a lot
of chronic stress,
they're going to have more cortisol,
that's going to shut down the bile, too.
If they took a synthetic version of
cortisol called prennazone, that can
shut down the bile salts as well. Now
you have a diet that's actually really
really healthy not just for gallstones
but to support your gallbladder. But I
just challenge you to investigate and do
research on maybe uh consuming uh bile
salts after each meal. Something like
tatka and purified bile salts. I hope
you are a lot more aware of your
gallbladder and the importance of it.
Now that you understand the importance
of the gallbladder, the next most
important thing to know is the
importance of actual bile. And for that
information, watch this video right
here.
