You have been lied to about acid
indigestion, acid reflux, heartburn, and
if you have anything wrong with your
stomach, you are going to be so happy
you watched this presentation because
not knowing the truth about this can
lead you to years of misery. In college,
I was on Tums for many years and it
helped me initially, but then I started
having side effects and other symptoms
and it just was a nightmare. I I didn't
really have this information I'm going
to share with you right now. And yes, I
also want to talk about apple cider
vinegar versus Tums and other ant acids.
And of course, my disclaimer right now
is check with your doctor before
implementing any of the things I'm going
to share with you. To understand this
problem, you just need to know a couple
simple facts.
When you eat food, the food comes down
the esophagus. It goes through a valve.
It goes in your stomach. There's acid in
the stomach that helps you break down
protein. It helps kill microbes, and it
also helps you absorb minerals and B12.
In order for all this to work, this acid
needs to be extremely acidic. Between 1
and three, if you know anything about
pH, that's like battery acid. It's super
acidic. even to trigger the main enzyme
for protein called pepsin, you need the
pH between 1.5 and two, like that's like
super super acidic. And if your stomach
is that acidic, it'll tell the pancreas
to release enzymes to help you break
down food. It will also let the
gallbladder know to release bile to help
you digest fats. And it'll tell the
pancreas to release a bicarbonate to
help neutralize this acid because the
stomach is full of acid and it's going
to come right in here and we have to
neutralize that to prevent an ulcer
happening lower in the digestive tract.
But over here we have something called
acid indigestion or gird reflux. All
very similar. You can see right here the
acid is coming up through this valve
into the esophagus right through here.
And here's the biggest lie. When you
have acid indigestion, heartburn, acid
reflux, those problems are a problem of
too much acid.
That is the lie. In reality, most of
those problems are really being caused
by a lack of acid or an acid that's not
very acidic. Okay? Definitely not down
here between 1 and three. could be four,
five, six, seven, pH. If you're
operating off of this information that
you need to get rid of your acid to fix
any one of these problems, then you're
going to be in a heap of trouble. All
the information I'm going to share with
you is from this book I'm going to put
up right now, and I'll put the link down
below by Dr. Wright. Now, there's a lot
of over-the-counter medications you can
take, and if you read the back of the
label, it'll say don't take this more
than a couple weeks. Okay? Well, a lot
of people take it a lot longer. The
reason they say only take it for two
weeks is because it can create a serious
deficiency in magnesium and other
nutrients. It can affect your bones. It
can affect your kidney. Does a lot of
harm to your body. But then we have
prescription medications. Apparently,
you can take those a little longer. uh
between four to six to at the max eight
weeks. My question is does it suddenly
cure the problem? So then you can come
off of it. Um well from my observation
no what they'll do next is they'll start
to increase the dosage of that
medication. What if that doesn't work?
What do they do? Well you have surgery.
So this is a huge problem. I think ant
acids are probably the most overused
medications because they just treat the
symptom. They don't actually fix the
root cause. So then here's a question is
like what about should you start taking
apple cider vinegar? Does that work
better than Tums? There is no research
on that. You won't find it. Tums works
better to get rid of acid, but that
should not be your goal if you want to
correct this. Apple cider vinegar is a
very good remedy for certain people.
I'll talk about that. I'm going to
recommend something even better than
that. But I think it's really important
to understand this foundation of what's
really happening and what the goal
should really be. I'm excited to share a
new product that we just released,
organic beetroot juice powder. With one
little tiny scoop, you can get the
nutrition from a beets. There's a lot of
different benefits with beets. The big
one that a lot of people are talking
about is the healthy support of nitric
oxide in your body. This product helps
support healthy blood flow. It's a
natural antioxidant. You get the
benefits of all the enzymes, the
phytonutrients, and definitely the
things that support nitric oxide. Let's
just go through the list and talk about
what symptoms you would have if you
didn't have enough stomach acid. Number
one, one of the side effects is gird. In
other words, not having the acid can
cause this problem. But also, this other
condition called SIBO, small intestinal
bacterial overgrowth. That's a situation
where because you don't have enough
acid, the food doesn't get digested
properly and it ends up in the small
intestine undigested in the small
intestine because the stomach didn't
kill off certain microbes. Now you start
to ferment in your small intestine. We
really should have fermentation lower in
the digestive tract, like 20 feet lower
into this tube. But now we have it right
here. Guess what you're going to get?
You're going to get gas, bloating. All
that gas is going to go into the stomach
and push that valve open, burping,
belching. You get too much gas. You can
even have fermentation in your stomach
producing more gas. So, one reason why
your valve won't close is you don't have
the right pH of the acid, okay? Because
there's a sensor between the valve and
this acid. Or you might have too much
gas because of this situation that pops
it open. Or it could be a neurological
problem that's coming from the autonomic
nervous system. Since the autonomic
nervous system controls all the valves,
you can very commonly have a problem
with the valve because of this autonomic
nervous system issue. And if you did,
the remedy would be vitamin B1. Another
symptom of low acids in the stomach is
the susceptibility to gastric cancer.
Okay. Another one is anemia because you
need a strong acid to be able to absorb
B12. So now we get a severe B12
deficiency which creates a certain type
of anemia. You get abdominal pressure.
I've already talked about that. That's
called bloating. You get reflux and you
get less tone of that valve. So there's
a lot of different mechanisms that can
occur just from not having enough acid.
Now there's another little twist to this
H. pylori. It's a microbe that normally
is dormant in our bodies, but it can
come out in certain environments, in
certain situations, and cause ulcers,
but it can also be responsible for 30 to
40% of acid indigestion or gird or acid
reflux and changes its relationship to
being somewhat friendly to unfriendly is
if you lose your stomach acid. So, the
fact that you've lost your stomach acids
can be a reason for this microbe to pop
out and start existing because it tends
to thrive in more alkaline environments.
High stress can do it and low vitamin D
can weaken the immune system and allow
it to come out of remission. But not
only does a low vitamin D situation
cause it to come out of remission as
another strategy, it will downgrade the
vitamin D receptor and not let you be
able to use vitamin D. So even though
you're levels are normal at the cell
level, it's not going in. So another
little twist on that which is really
interesting is that in your immune
system you have something called a
catholic. Catholiciden is something in
your immune system that will kill H.
pylori on contact, it gets activated by
vitamin D3. This is probably why H.
pylori is really trying to shut down
your vitamin D because it knows if it
doesn't, uh, your immune system will
automatically kill this thing if it
starts to come out of remission. Now, I
just wanted to make sure that you don't
think I'm making all this stuff up. I'm
going to give you some references and
I'll put these links down below, but
these are research paper. There's one
from Keller in 2015 found that patients
with hypocchloryria, that's low acid in
their stomach, had impaired protein
digestion and delayed gastric emptying
leading to pressure buildup and reflux
like symptoms. Next one. Wilder Smith
2009 in the digestion journal showed
that PPIs which are ant acids can
increase gastric bacterial overgrowth
and bloating contributing to reflux-like
symptoms suggesting that acid
suppression can worsen things. Multiple
studies confirm that gastrin, that's the
hormone that increases the release of
acid. Gastin release, which strengthens
the tone of that valve, depends on acid
levels. I'm not making any of this up.
This is legitimate. I'm going to get
right into the solution to this, which
is so simple. But if you're operating
off of this lie, then you're never going
to be able to fix it. you're just going
to be constantly trying to get rid of
acid. It's kind of like trying to put
out a fire with gasoline and we keep
putting more gasoline on it and we
wonder why doesn't it go out? Maybe you
should try water. Okay, so first thing
is apple cider vinegar. A lot of people
are using apple cider vinegar to help
relieve their indigestion and their
heartburn and it works for a lot of
people. And of course, you never want to
take straight apple cider vinegar and
drink it. You want to dilute it like one
or two tablespoons per 8 ounces of water
or even 12 ounces of water and then you
sip that with a straw so it doesn't get
on your teeth. I wouldn't necessarily
use this as a permanent solution. Apple
cider vinegar diluted is great for a lot
of things, but to really fix your
digestion, you're going to need
something a little different. But I just
want to let you know it will work at
least temporarily because it does
indirectly trigger the hormone that
helps you make your own acid. But the
thing that you really need is called
betain hydrochloride. And it has an
interesting history. In 1999, there was
a landmark study in the journal for
clinical pharmarmacology that showed
that you could restore normal gastric
acidity levels using betane
hydrochloride within 30 minutes. So,
betane hydrochloride can reaccidify your
stomach fairly quickly. Between 1930 and
1950 in various medical textbooks, guess
what they used for heartburn? Betain
hydrochloride. They didn't have Tums or
Rolades back then, but for problems with
low stomach acid, they used betane
hydrochloride. So, this is an old remedy
that medical doctors use. Between 1939
and 1947, there was a study uh using the
H Highleberg capsule test where they
actually put a capsule down in your
stomach and they measure the pH. while
the person was taking betane
hydrochloride and they found they can
actually uh bring the pH from 5.2 which
is not very acid down to 6 which is less
than one within 30 minutes using betane
hydrochloride as a solution. Now back
then I would imagine the betane
hydrochloride was much stronger than it
is now because now you buy it over the
counter it's not that strong. you need
more of them to achieve that same
effect. But the point is that betane
hydrochloride has a history in medicine
that they used for a lot of these
conditions before the Tums, the Rolades,
the PPIs, etc. And we need this
hydrochloric acid at a certain pH to
activate an enzyme called pepsin, which
is a very powerful protein enzyme to
break that down. If you don't have the
acid, you're not going to be able to
trigger this enzyme and you will not be
able to digest protein that well. Then
the pancreas is going to have to try to
compensate and produce some protein
enzymes, but it's not going to be enough
to get complete protein digestion. So,
you're going to have all sorts of
problems with bloating and digestive
inflammation and the list goes on and on
and on. So, this is what I recommend you
do. You use betane hydrochloride. It
comes in little tablets. Start taking
two before a meal. Do you feel like a
mild warm feeling in your stomach? If
not, the next time you eat, you take
three and then you keep increasing until
you hit like seven if you need that
much. Because some people, they really
have a lack of stomach acid. So, they're
going to need more. So, they take this
before a meal, they feel this mild
warmth at a certain amount, and then you
just cut back a little bit. So let's say
you took six and you felt uh this warm
sensation in your stomach. Then the next
time you eat, take five and then just
take that for a while. It does take some
time to fully reestablish that normal pH
in your stomach. But you're going to
find as you do this, the valve on the
top of the stomach starts closing. You
get less reflux. Then you get less
bloating. Then you get less SIBO, small
intestinal bacterial overgrowth, which
is going to be less bloating, and now
you're going to start feeling better and
better and better. Remember when I
talked about that H pylori, right? Well,
vitamin D combined with magnesium
is also super important not just in
dealing with that microbe H. pylori, but
also into helping you make enough
hydrochloric acid. Vitamin D is
necessary and so is magnesium. And
there's other things that are important
too, but vitamin D and magnesium is at
the top of the list. If we go deeper and
just ask, well, why did we end up with
this lack of stomach acid in the first
place? Obviously, it's going to be
related to what you're eating. Eating
junk food, eating too much refined food,
eating too frequently. We cram all this
food down our digestive tract. So our
system never has a chance to rest
between meals. Then it starts to
malfunction and create all sorts of
issues. And also not enough salt, sodium
chloride, the chloride in sodium
chloride helps you build up hydrochloric
acid. So having sufficient salt, sea
salt will help you. Having enough uh
zinc is important. Also iodine, I didn't
add that to the list, but having enough
iodine will help you build hydrochloric
acid. So in other words, as you start
correcting this, you want to make sure
that you're getting these things from
your diet. Okay? So you can get
obviously the sea salt. Zinc is in
seafood, red meat. Iodine is also in
shellfish, seafood, and then you have
B1. And you can get this from sunflower
seeds, roasted or nutritional yeast, or
you can just take it as a supplement.
magnesium, leafy greens, pumpkin seeds,
and also if you've been on a low animal
protein diet, that can actually severely
affect the amount of hydrochloric acid
in your stomach. A lot of people that
are diabetics have this digestive
problem. So, insulin resistance is one
of the root causes. And also, like I
said before, frequent meals will really
screw this thing up. If you take this
betain hydrochloride or apple cider
vinegar and you feel worse and it burns,
you stop taking it, but then what do you
do? Well, that's what I'm going to talk
about. Gastritis is a situation where
your stomach actually is producing too
much acid is not near as common. So,
this is why I'm talking about it as a
side note. And the question is, should
you be taking medication for that? Well,
I'm just going to give you the
alternative version, but of course,
check with your doctor before doing
anything. One of the best remedies for
both of these conditions is zinc
carnosine. It seems to go right to the
ulcer or area that needs to be healed,
creating this wound healing effect. It's
like really wild. It's super effective
and it can heal up the ulcer and also
reduce the gastritis. Another good
remedy is mastic gum. Okay. also D3.
Why? Because D3 and magnesium directly
helps increase that compound in your
immune system called cathalyiden.
Probiotics, especially eldery. I've
talked about that in other videos. If
you haven't seen that, I'll put that
link down below. But that yogurt culture
that you can make goes into the small
intestine and start to correct some of
the over fermentation
and that can lessen the gas. But also
some of the acids that are produced from
that that can actually spill up and
irritate your digestive system.
Sulfurophane in broccoli sprouts was
found to inhibit H. pylori. Fascinating.
B12 is important especially since a lot
of people that have gastritis also have
a problem with the absorption of B12.
And then also if you have gastritis or
even an ulcer out of all the things that
you eat vegetable wise you may find that
cabbage seems to be the best. I mean
even if you look at the history of this
vitamin U which stands for ulcers
actually it's in cabbage. There's a
whole history on this. It's fascinating.
And then of course intermittent fasting.
So for certain types of gastritis,
taking more acid, apple cider vinegar,
can turn off that hormone gastrin, so
you can actually make less acid versus
some people taking like an ant acid or a
PPI that then sends the signal to the
stomach that, hey, listen, you don't
have enough acid there. We're shutting
it down. Make more acid. So then you get
this rebound of more acid like a hyper
acid situation that occurs after you
take this drug. Now I briefly touched on
this probiotic called Lutery which can
greatly be a gamecher with your small
intestine but it does a lot more. I
created a fascinating video on how to
make your own eluterai yogurt right
here. Check it out.
