Today, we're going to show you how to
make any meal 10x more nutritious. I'm
going to show you 27 different ways that
make your food more nutrientdense. Let's
start with number one, combining extra
virgin olive oil with your salad.
Extravirgin olive oil is one of the
better fats to use because it's going to
help you extract fats soluble vitamins,
too, like vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin
E, vitamin K1, vitamin K2. really make
sure you're getting the real olive oil
because a lot of times it's corrupted
with added soy oil or canola oil. When
you consume this extra-virgin olive oil,
you should feel a little kind of a
burning itching thing in the back of the
throat. Number two, adding black pepper
to various things, especially turmeric.
Let's say for example, you're you're
making a meal with curry or you're
making a meal with eggs and you add
turmeric. Unfortunately, turmeric
doesn't release a lot of its active
compound, curcumin, but when you add
black pepper, you increase the
absorption by 2,000%.
Next one has to do with nitric oxide.
This is involved with keeping your blood
pressure low. Nitric oxide also helps
you increase blood flow through your
brain. Beets have a lot of nitrates that
turn into nitric oxide. But if we
compare beets to arugula, arugula has
three times the amount of nitric oxide
to be. In order to bring up the nitric
oxide in beets, you'd have to consume it
in a beet juice powder form. One thing
that I do several times a week is I have
an arugula salad with extra virgin olive
oil. So, I get that extra benefit of
nitric oxide as well. Number four,
cabbage. The reason I'm bringing up
cabbage is because cabbage has this very
unique vitamin called vitamin U, which
has to do with its ability and its
quality of improving ulcers both in the
small intestine and the stomach. By
eating cabbage, you get this extra
sulurophane that helps you in many
different ways, including helping you
detoxify your liver. If we roll into
number five and we consume fermented
cabbage as sauerkraut, we get some
really cool enhancements. vitamin K2
because the microbes in the sauerkraut
make K2. Vitamin K2 helps keep calcium
in your bones and out of the soft
tissues like your joints and your
arteries. Number six, apple cider
vinegar with water. You just take a
teaspoon of it and a glass of water,
maybe add some lemon right before you
eat food. What is that going to do? It's
going to acidify the stomach and allow
you to break down protein better and
also help you absorb minerals as well as
kill microbes. Many people don't have
enough acid. Adding some apple cider
vinegar and you can drink it with a
straw so it doesn't get in your teeth
can greatly help your digestion. Number
seven, sea salt in the evening before
bed. It will help you sleep. And a lot
of people just don't consume enough
salt, but you don't want to just have
regular table salt. You want to have sea
salt. That way you get additional 84
different trace minerals and you also
get the sodium chloride. Number eight is
shellfish. The trace minerals are what
most people are missing, especially
zinc, selenium, iodine. Shellfish will
give you those key nutrients because
it's really hard to get those trace
minerals with any other food. You don't
need to have it very often, but at least
once a week. Number nine, if you consume
broccoli, add a little mustard to it.
There's a certain enzyme that interacts
with something in broccoli to allow the
enhancement of something called
sulfurophane. This key nutrient that
helps a lot of things, decreasing
symptoms from Alzheimer's, also
decreasing symptoms from autism. And the
list goes on and on and on. If you
actually instead of the broccoli had
baby broccoli and baby broccoli sprouts,
now we're really going to magnify that
by a factor of 10 to 30 times more.
Number 10 compound in green tea called
EGCG.
People take it to help them lose weight.
People take it to prevent cancer. It
literally does so many things in the
body, but you can enhance EGCG by adding
some lemon by an enhancement factor of
80%. You can do lemon juice or just a
little squeeze of a lemon. So, a lot of
people ask me, "What supplements do I
recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not
biased of my own high quality supplement
line, but if you go to Amazon and type
Dr. Ber supplements, you'll find more
information. Number 11, consuming your
vegetables with added butter because the
fat will help actually extract some of
the phytonutrients, but also there's fat
in eggs, right? The egg yolk. Let's say
you had an avocado with egg. Perfect
combination because the fat will allow
you to absorb all the wonderful
polyphenols in that avocado. Number 12
is dark chocolate. But there's something
in dark chocolate that your microbes
love. And if you take care of your
microbes, they'll take care of you.
Also, dark chocolate can increase nitric
oxide, that thing that's good for the
inside of the arteries to help lower
your blood pressure. Number 13 is
consuming the bitter vegetables first.
Because when you eat something bitter
like arugula, that actually increases
the digestive juices, not just the
enzymes, but the bile from your liver.
Dandelion greens, Swiss chard, you have
kale, have a bitter component to it.
Number 14 is not something you eat. It's
just something you do. I wanted to add
it in there because it's very important.
Go for a walk after you eat. This way
you burn off any sugar that you ate and
basically it doesn't have a chance to
convert to fat. Number 15, garlic. And
garlic is very potent anti-cancer
because of this compound called
allisonin. This allisonin is only
activated when you crush it. So what I
recommend you do is you crush the
garlic, wait 10 minutes, then eat the
garlic. 10xing or 15xing
the effectiveness of allisonin in that
garlic. Number 16, cooking steak or
hamburgers on the grill. There is a
component of that that could be
carcinogenic. One really good antidote
to both of those situations is to add
thyme or rosemary, sage, or garlic to
your meat when you cook it. Number 17
has to do with nuts. If you're consuming
walnuts, for example, or other nuts,
realize if they're raw, they have enzyme
inhibitors that can then prevent you
from absorbing some of the nutrition in
those nuts. What you can do is you can
soak the nuts in water overnight, dry
them out in the oven or a dehydrator,
and greatly enhance the digestibility of
that nut and the nutrients in that nut
as well. Number 18, animal protein.
Grass-fed meat is so so much better than
tofu. Number 19, a protein breakfast. If
you're going to consume any breakfast at
all, your brain is going to work a lot
better and you're going to crave less
foods and you're not going to be tired
after you eat. Don't do the carbs.
Number 20, low carb with intermittent
fasting. If I could do any of these, it
would be that to produce the biggest
bang for my health. 21 has to do with
collagen. To get your collagen, you have
bone broth. Consume the skin on the fish
or the chicken. You can take a collagen
powder, but you'd be surprised on how
difficult it is to get enough collagen.
And collagen makes up all the ligaments,
tendons, fashcia, the skin. Number 22,
omega-3 fatty acids. Another big problem
that most people have is they're very
heavy on the omega-6 fats, which are
inflammatory. You need to add more
omega-3 fat. That's consuming sardines,
cod liver, cod liver oil, fatty fish
like salmon. 23 has to do with the
quality of cheese that you eat. American
cheese. Just do not consume that. Get
your cheese raw. You're getting a really
high quality source of calcium that you
can't get from anything else. Number 24
has to do with your salad. I shred some
cheese on my salad and then I put some
nutritional yeast in the salad because
it's loaded with B vitamins. For a lot
of people who are under anxiety, stress,
worry, nervous tension, when they
consume B vitamins, especially B1,
they can breathe. They just feel calmer.
Number 25 has to do with tomatoes. If
you can consume some cooked tomatoes,
you spike the phytonutrient lycopine,
which is good for the prostate. It's
good for vision. It's good as an
anti-inflammatory. Number 26, onions.
Onions are loaded with corsetin.
Corsetin is an awesome
anti-inflammatory. It's good for the
cardiovascular system. It's good for
your microbiome, and it's easy to put in
most of your foods. And 27 is something
you should avoid anything refined,
especially refined sugar and refined
starches because those two will suck out
nutrients from your other food and your
body. Now that you know about sugar and
starches, there are other things that
are way more dangerous to your health
than those two. And for that
information, watch this video right
here.
