for extreme hair growth. Apply this
twice a week. This natural remedy can
work on many different types of hair
loss problems, whether it's autoimmune,
nutritional, or even an overgrowth of
some type of fungus or pathogen. And
you're going to be using the juice of an
onion. I'm going to show you how to
supercharge that recipe to take it to
the next level. If you're skeptical, you
should be because there's so many things
out there that really don't work. People
want to know about, is my hair going to
smell like an onion? You're going to
actually wash your hair twice after you
apply this. There's not going to be any
smell of onion. What is so special about
an onion that can help your hair? It's
loaded with sulfur. The sulfur is not
necessarily related to hair loss, but it
is related to the raw material that can
help build the main protein in hair,
which is called keratin. Keratin is
sulfurbased. Onions have the highest
amount of corsetin. Corsetin is going to
help your hair. One of the biggest
things that corsetin does is it helps
suppress this autoimmune attack tea cell
uh situation. If your hair loss is
alopecia where you have these patches of
hair coming out, uh it can help you. On
top of everything, corsetin helps
increase the growth hormones of the hair
follicle which is right at the root of
the hair itself. And on top of all of
that, corsetin is a powerful
antimicrobial protecting your scalp
against overgrowth of yeast, fungus,
mold, and if you also have dandruff or
some other problems going on the scalp,
that can help you as well. Let me simply
tell you how to do it and then I'm going
to get into some a few little tweaks to
this recipe to take it to the next
level. This whole recipe is based on an
organic red onion because red has the
most corsetin. Take one onion, chop it
into small pieces, put it into the
blender, and blend it down. Then you're
going to take the blended slurry and put
it through a cheesecloth so you can
separate out the liquid into a
container. Now, it would be good if you
had some type of squeeze bottle that you
can put it into, but you don't really
need that. All you need is a little
container, maybe a a mason jar. And then
the next thing you're going to do when
you go into the shower is you're going
to get your hair wet, and then you're
going to take this liquid and you're
going to start to massage it into your
hair, the actual roots as well, for a
couple minutes. Once you get it massaged
into the hair, you will then come out of
the shower, dry your body off, and then
leave this mixture in your hair for
about 30 minutes, but I would personally
recommend to leave it in your hair for 1
hour. And you can probably just use a
shower cap as well. Then what you're
going to do is go back into the shower,
rinse it off, shampoo your hair actually
twice to remove any odor that you might
not like. You're going to just do that
twice a week, okay? For about four to
six weeks. Now, as far as hair growth,
you should start noticing some hair
growth after week three or four. Now,
let's take your results to the next
level. There's two things that you can
try. The first one is going to be pretty
cool, but the second one's going to be
even cooler. It's simply just adding
something to the onion juice. You're
going to be adding five drops of
rosemary oil. What is so special about
rosemary oil? Well, in a randomized
trial in 2015, they compared rosemary
oil to one of the top medications for
alipcia. And they found rosemary by
itself was as effective as this
medication. Rosemary oil has several
phytonutrients that are
anti-inflammatory, are antioxidant, that
stimulate the scalp in a way that
increases blood flow, and it's great for
autoimmune issues. The onion juice by
itself has been shown to be pretty
effective. So in a study in the journal
of dermatology, they split this group in
half and half of the group did onion
juice on their hair and the other half
just did water. And just within 6 weeks,
the group that used the onion juice had
an
86.9% result. And when I talk about
results, I'm talking about significant
hair regrowth. Compared to the other
group, which just used water, only had a
13% result. Now, there was another study
on mice. the group that used the
corsetin and they actually did separate
out just the corsetin from the onion
showed regeneration of the hair in all
of the treated groups and in the
untreated groups there was no regrowth
of hair. So now let's supercharge this
recipe and take it to the next level.
You're basically going to enhance the
onion juice. Now how do you do that?
You're going to ferment it. You're going
to take one onion. You're going to take
the peel off. You're going to chop it
up. You put it in the blender. Strain
out the pulp. And then take that slurry
and put it into a mason jar. And then
you're going to add a 8 oz cup of water.
And then you're going to take a teaspoon
of sea salt. Then you're going to add a
half a teaspoon of raw honey. Mix it up
really good. Put a cheesecloth over the
mason jar or even a coffee filter. Then
you're going to put it on your counter
so it can ferment for 72 hours. And
you're going to notice within the second
day is these little tiny CO2 bubbles,
carbon dioxide bubbles popping up. What
you're doing is you're enhancing the
corsetin. The nutrition that's in there
is also going to be enhanced because the
microbes are going to actually make more
vitamins. So basically, we're taking
this antidote to hair loss, onion juice,
and we're magnifying it. And also, the
pH of the onion juice is going to be
becoming more acidic to about five,
which is going to be very therapeutic to
your scalp. Now, at this point, you want
cheesecloth, okay? So you can separate
out the liquid and put it in that
squeeze bottle and then apply to your
hair just like I have already talked
about which is getting your hair wet and
then massaging it into your scalp for a
few minutes and then coming out of the
shower waiting for 1 hour with the
shower cap if you want. Then you're
going to go back in the shower, rinse
out your hair very thoroughly and
shampoo your hair twice. And I would
recommend doing this twice a week for 6
weeks or even longer depending on your
situation. A couple other key things to
note. There's so many different
mechanisms involved with vitamin D in
hair growth or loss of hair that you
should be taking at least 10,000 or
20,000 IUs of vitamin D3 every day or
get a good amount of sun. And the only
other thing you need to have attention
on is to make sure you're eating the
right foods to support the nutrients for
your hair. And if you haven't seen this
video on that topic, I'll put it up
right here. Check it out.
