Hello, Dr. Berg here again. Today we're
going to talk about the biggest mistake
that I made with my breakfast that
nearly killed me. There's a handful of
mistakes to talk about, then I'm going
to get to the biggest one. Let's start
with number one, the type of coffee that
you drink. Of course, in college, I
drank way too much coffee. But it's not
necessarily the coffee that's the
problem. It's the type of coffee that
you're drinking. I'm not sure if you're
aware of this or not, but coffee beans
are one of the most sprayed crops behind
cotton and tobacco. You're literally
drinking a super concentrated soup of a
lot of pesticides out of all the things
that you're exposed to. It's the single
greatest source of concentrated toxins
that you expose yourself on a daily
basis. Then on top of that, if you're
adding sugar to your coffee or if you
add the non-dairy creamers with all the
seed oils and chemicals or maybe even
flavored coffees, that would be even
worse. The simple solution is just to
use organic coffee beans. Number two,
orange juice. If you think orange juice
is healthy, what you don't know is that
you're basically just drinking sugar
water because most, if not all, orange
juice is pasteurized. And when they heat
this orange juice, they kill off and
destroy the vitamin C. You're not really
getting nutrition. You're getting a lot
of concentrated sugar. One small cup of
orange juice is equivalent to a soda.
Also, your liver is going to be affected
from the fructose. What's going to
happen is you're going to be spiking
your blood sugar and it's going to come
down in about an hour and a half and now
you're going to be wanting something
sweet. Personally, I'm not thirsty in
the morning, so I don't drink anything.
But you can do tea, coffee, water with
lemon, but I wouldn't do the juice.
Number three, my breakfast used to be
very carbheavy. Cereals, granola bars,
blueberry muffins, pancakes, and
waffles, and definitely toast. Of
course, the cereals are the worst
because they have so many hidden sugars
and they're camouflaged with the healthy
whole grains, which is totally BS. After
the breakfast, spike in sugar. I end up
with low sugar because insulin's coming
in there and pushing it down. And now my
brain doesn't have any energy. This is
what happened for years and years and
years. I couldn't wake up in the
morning. This so-called fuel is not
really fueling our brains. It's
literally starving our brains the more
we consume it. At that time, I really
bought into the whole grain cereals. And
of course, you need to get rid of all
that fat from the bacon. I would
literally take paper towels and I would
push out or dampen the oil or the fat
from the bacon. That was my way of being
healthy. How many kids are just grouchy
and irritable and they can't just be
calm because their blood sugar is so up
and down? Then instead of fixing the
diet, they put them on psych drugs.
Crazy. What I'm going to tell you is a
very simple fix. It's so simple and so
powerful. All you have to do is switch
to a protein breakfast. That's it. And
watch how fast your body improves.
Simply consume eggs and bacon. I would
do four eggs in the morning and some
bacon. You can also do cheese. That
works. You can also do yogurt, but I
would do the whole fat yogurt without
any added sugar. It's not the best
source of protein, but it's definitely
better than the sweetened yogurt. A
steak would work really good. I also
have done the burger patties, buffalo
burgers, beef patties. Oh my gosh, that
works really good, too. Another mistake
that I made with breakfast food is
consuming just fruit and maybe sometimes
nuts. Like I would take an apple and put
peanut butter or a handful of nuts with
fruit, maybe banana. And so midm morning
I would need to eat again because
bananas and and apples are very high in
sugar. On top of that, I would always
need a snack mid-afternoon. That was
also a mistake because it raised the
blood glucose and it kept the insulin
spiking through the day. A step up from
that would be a protein snack if you had
the choice. You can do cheese, you can
do a little bit of meat like shakuterie.
You'd never want to snack with
carbohydrates. Next mistake that I was
making is I was using a lot of peanut
butter and I never read the label
because on the label they added
hydrogenated oils as well as added sugar
and sometimes high fructose corn syrup.
This relates to the next mistake. When I
would cook or fry potatoes in the pan
for breakfast, I would always use corn
oil. It's highly processed, but it's
healthy, right? Because it says it on
the label. You want to cook in butter or
olive oil or coconut oil or lard. You
don't want to cook in seed oils. Next
mistake I made was my meats had sugar
and starches in them. Breakfast sausage,
right? If you ever read the ingredients
of that, they put modified food starch
in there. There's sugar in there.
There's wheat flour in there. There's
very little meat in there. Of course, my
bacon always had sugar in it. The next
mistake, and I have a lot of videos on
this, which I probably should take down.
They're older videos. I was really
pushing kale shakes with fruit. I would
sometimes recommend spinach instead of
kale, which is just loaded with
oxalates, right? Then you're going to
add fruit in there. You're going to
blend this up. The mistake that I made
back then was not adding high quality
protein, especially for breakfast. But
now, let's get into my biggest mistake
that caused more destruction than
anything else combined. Eating when I
wasn't hungry. It was thinking that
breakfast was the most important meal of
the day. That actually is not true
information. Here you are. You go to bed
all night long. You're not eating.
You're fasting in the morning. Then you
screw it up by eating. You're not really
hungry in the morning. Most people are
not hungry unless they've eaten
something sweet the day before. There's
so many wonderful magical things that
happen to your body when you fast for a
longer period of time. So let's say for
example last night the last meal was at
6:00 and you can push through and not
have breakfast and skip the breakfast
and go all the way to lunch. Now you
have a good 18 hours of fasting. You're
able to burn your own fat to lose more
weight. You get to run on not just your
own fat, but the ketones that are a
byproduct of fat and your brain loves
them. You get to reverse insulin
resistance. All the years of eating
carbohydrates, your mood goes up.
Appetite goes away mostly from skipping
breakfast. When I was 28, I was eating
all the wrong things. I had arthritis. I
had brain fog. I was a pre-diabetic. I
started gaining weight. But other than
that, I was doing pretty good overall.
And I'm just being sarcastic. to get
more information on what that's called.
It's called intermittent fasting. I
created a very detailed video for you, a
guide that you can learn from all the
details and I put it right here. Check
it out right now.
