The number one best way to remove dental
plaque, aka tartar. I stumbled on
something that's a gamecher. This is not
only going to get rid of your tartar, it
will also help you prevent cavities.
This is going to be really important
with children as well as adults. Plaque
and tartar or bofilm. When you think
about bofilm, think of like this
protective shield against your immune
system that's in your mouth. So the
bacteria make this bofilm, this shield
out of calcium and it's made by a
certain microbe called
streptoccus mutants. This is also the
one that's involved in making cavities
as well. So when you consume sugar and
especially starches, that microbe will
make a ton of acid and then it takes the
sugar and then it starts making this
glue like substance that then starts
creating a shield or this bofilm gel aka
tartar. And unfortunately, the acid is
now trapped against your tooth, causing
a breakdown of the actual enamel. And
what's even more wild, they found this
microbe in other places in your body,
including on the valves of your heart.
But not only that, hidden deep in the
plaque in your arteries, you'll find
this microbe. One thing you should also
know is what's worse than just sugar is
when you add a sugar and a starch. that
will form a glue that kind of sticks to
your teeth even more than the sugar. How
do we remove this plaque? Okay, of
course, number one, stop eating sugar
and starches. Number two, hydrogen
peroxide 3%. Make sure it's food grade
and use a half of a teaspoon. Hydrogen
peroxide is very good to start breaking
down this bile film and also make your
teeth a little bit whiter. And then
you're going to use half of a teaspoon
of baking soda. All right, so why are we
using baking soda? Well, it's a mild
abrasive material that will help to
cleanse the teeth. The big purpose is to
alkalize the acidity in your mouth
because baking soda is alkaline. And by
the way, your body makes that as well.
Your pancreas makes it to help
neutralize the acids coming from the
stomach. And then we're going to use
three drops of the absolute best
essential oil, clove oil. It helps to
disrupt the bofilm and start breaking
down the tartar. It also has other
benefits of decreasing uh pain in your
mouth. But you're going to use three
drops of this essential oil. So now I
want to talk about this additional
ingredient, micro crystallin hydroxy
appatite powder. Okay, you can buy this
on Amazon. It's not that expensive, but
it's a powder of very tiny crystals of a
material that bone is made out of. And
you're going to mix a half of a teaspoon
with these other ingredients. they can
go into the small little crevices, the
little cavities, and remmineralize the
bone tissue and becomes the enamel
around the tooth. Now, we can prevent
the acid from breaking down the small
crevices in your tooth. And then, of
course, you're just going to add 3
teaspoon of water with this. Mix it all
up, put on your toothbrush, and then in
circular motions, brush your teeth on
the outside and the inside once a day. I
also recommend that you find a gum that
has friendly oral bacteria that you can
chew and repopulate your mouth with the
good bacteria which will also help
protect you against the formation of
bofilms. Those bacteria not only will
help prevent tartar but it will also
prevent bad breath cavities. Now as far
as in your diet, one of the best foods
that you could consume to prevent all
these problems that we talked about is
grass-fed butter. When I was a kid, I
craved butter. For my birthday, I
remember requesting a pound of butter.
And I would literally just eat it. I
would eat butter. And it's so
interesting when I look back, the reason
why I craved the butter, I had a lot of
dental decay. And unfortunately, every
single tooth in my mouth had cavities
over time. And I visited the dentist
frequently, unfortunately. But if I
didn't consume those foods as a child
and I had the butter, I probably could
have fixed my teeth. But grass-fed
butter has vitamin K2, which basically
takes the calcium in your body and
pushes it into the bones. Butter also
has vitamin A. You also need vitamin A
to keep your enamel very, very strong.
It's interesting because an early
pioneer, Weston Price, who was a dentist
back, I think in the 1930s or 40s,
talked about something called Activator
X. Activator X actually is vitamin K2
because he noticed some of the
traditional cultures around the world
consumed uh grass-fed butter. They
consumed food high in vitamin K2 and
these are the foods that really kept the
teeth super healthy with also good uh
dental bone structure as well. So I
would definitely recommend including
grass-fed butter in your diet on a
regular basis. I mean butter does a lot.
It has something else called butyrate
which actually goes into your brain.
Butyrate also feeds your colon cells. So
wild that we were told to avoid butter
because of the cholesterol and this idea
that it's going to create a heart
problem when in fact it's loaded with
vitamin K2 that keeps the plaque from
building up in the arteries pushing this
calcium into your teeth and your bones.
So butter is really good for the bone.
It's also good as a raw material for
your hormones, including testosterone,
because all of your sex hormones are
made from cholesterol. Now that you have
the updated protocol to get rid of
tartar and prevent cavities, go ahead
and try it and then comment down below
and tell me how it worked.
