Today we're going to talk about what
would happen to your brain if you ate no
sugar for 21 days. That's 3 weeks. And
I've done a lot of videos on how sugar
impacts the whole body. Today, we're
just going to focus in on this brain.
It's fascinating. And this video, it was
inspired by a research paper out of the
journal of clinical endocrinology and
metabolism. And this study revolved
around doing the ketogenic diet for
three weeks and what it does to the
brain just in three weeks. It's
mind-blowing. It increase the blood flow
to your brain by 22%. Now, you might at
first say, "Well, 22% doesn't seem like
a lot." But let's say you're an Olympic
athlete and you're running around the
track and someone just turned up the
oxygen by 22%. Just think of the
advantage of what 22% more oxygen could
do in a race. We're talking about a
significant boost in oxygen and
nutrients to your brain. Even if you
think when you exercise, if you were to
restrict your oxygen by 22%.
You would feel it. I mean, just think
about if you go to sleep at night and
someone turns down the blood flow and
turns down the oxygen by 22%. Well, they
actually call that sleep apnea. You're
not going to sleep that great. You're
going to wake up feeling tired. Well,
just by going on low carb, you can
increase your blood flow significantly.
And there's something else that's really
cool. Your BDNF increases by 47%. What
is BDNF? Brainer derived neurotrophic
factor. This is a protein that tells
your brain to grow, repair, and rewire
itself, making more connections, growing
new brain cells. They also consider it
an anti-depressive molecule because it
helps prevent depression and it helps
boost your IQ. Three weeks, no sugar,
almost 50% more brain derived
neurotrphic factor. This is like
incredible. What would happen in a month
or two months or 3 months or a year of
doing low sugar? At the end, I'll cover
what would happen specifically at week
one, two, and three. And then I'm going
to give you some real simple tips of how
to do it. In order to talk about the
benefits of coming off sugar, I first
need to talk about what happens when you
eat sugar specifically to your brain.
And I think most people might know this
right here. But I'll tell you one thing.
Many people do not know this. In fact, I
haven't even talked about all of this in
any of my videos. So, this is
interesting because it's kind of general
knowledge that people know that when you
sugar, you're going to create a blood
sugar swing, right? And you're going to
increase insulin. I think also people
know uh when the blood sugar goes down,
you're going to feel irritable because
you're starving your brain of fuel.
You're going to have brain fog. When I
was living on sugar long ago, I was in a
permanent brain fog. I didn't even know
what it was like to actually think
clearly and not be in the fog. And I was
also highly irritable as well. And also
your sleep is messed up. This is why
when you wake up in the morning, you're
not really awake. It takes you a long
time to wake up. Anxiety. Your attention
will be low. You'll have less focus.
Your memory is not going to be as great.
Uh I already mentioned the mood swings.
Usually you're going to be hungry an
hour and a half after you ate. How can
you actually be hungry? You just ate an
hour and a half ago. It's illogical.
It's not real hunger. It's the blood
sugar crashing, which is not a lack of
fuel. The problem is at the cellular
level. Because when the brain becomes
dependent on sugar, it starts to create
a resistance to sugar. That's called
insulin resistance. And so the more
sugar you eat and the longer you do
that, the less of that sugar will get
into the cells. This is the brain or
body trying to protect itself against
this toxic sugar. When you take a
diabetic for example, they're not
getting a lot of sugar into the brain.
And this is why they have a higher risk
of dementia, memory problems. So a lot
of these symptoms are merely the fuel
not able to get into the cells. So
literally the cells are starving for
fuel despite all this food coming in. It
just you have all this fuel available,
but it's not actually being delivered
inside the cell. So, in other words,
eating in sugar makes you hungry. It
makes you crave sweets. I was so
addicted to sugar, I had to have it
every single night. Uh, a pint of Ben &
Jerry's every single night. I wouldn't
even think twice. And also, right when
you eat sugar, right after that, your
vision is kind of blurry. It's kind of
wild. Now, if you've never heard of the
data that a B1 deficiency can be created
by consuming too many carbs, you're
going to want to stick around and really
uh listen to what I'm going to talk
about because this is super fascinating
and it could explain a lot of your
symptoms that you're having right now
that you're not connecting the dots
because a lot of these symptoms that I'm
going to talk about are like all over
the place. They don't sound like they're
connected, but they are connected to a
B1 deficiency. What is B1? B1 is
thamine. It's one of the B vitamins in a
whole complex of B vitamins. When you
actually consume too many carbs, the
demand for B1 goes straight up and
vertical. You need a lot of B1 to be
able to deal with all that carbohydrate.
Let's say for example with a car, you
put a lot of gasoline in there, right?
You have the perfect ratio of gasoline
to air, but the spark plug doesn't work,
right? B1 is the spark plug. B1 allows
the combustion of that fuel. If you
flood too much fuel into the system
without B1, then that fuel does not get
burned correctly. You cannot make
energy. So without B1, you can't make
this, you can't make this, you can't
make ATP, and you starve off the nervous
system because those cells have a high
metabolism and they are majorly
dependent on B1 more than a lot of other
cells. This is why out of all the
tissues in your body, the nervous system
in the brain are the first one to show
up with a B1 deficiency because the
large amount of sugar and carbs that
people eat are depleting B1 and they
don't know it. So, I'm going to talk
about all the bad effects that happen
from this. So, then we can talk about
all the good things that will happen if
you don't consume sugar. One of the
biggest things that suffers with a B1
deficiency is the autonomic nervous
system composed of the sympathetic and
the parasympathetic nervous system. And
that's like rest and digest. And this
originates in the brain stem in the
hypothalamus. That's where it's located.
And without B1, these things are not
going to work that well. So then what's
going to happen to the rest of the body?
because we're getting a problem in the
brain, which is the origin of where this
starts. Well, you're going to get dry
eyes. Why? Because the tear ducts don't
release tears anymore. So, you might
have dry eyes and think it's maybe a
vitamin A deficiency or you need to put
something in your eyes. No, no, it's a
B1 deficiency. Air hunger. I used to
have this. I didn't know what it was,
especially when I would go to sleep at
night. I just I couldn't get enough air.
It wasn't satisfying me. that relates to
a B1 deficiency because I was eating too
much sugar. Bladder problems. You're
urinating but you can't get all the
urine out. A lot of times men will think
that's their prostate when in fact it's
simply the autonomic nervous system
problem occurring because of the B1.
Same thing with women that have bladder
problems. They have retention of urine
and they think it's maybe structural
from the uterus or this or that. Now,
it's coming from this right here and
this right here. So, that can also lead
to urinary tract infections and just a
bladder that cannot contract as well as
it should. Heartbeat issues. Now, this
could start from a palpitation to a skip
beat to an actual arrhythmia problem and
come from a B1 because B1 is all about
the nervous system and the connection to
different parts of the body. And we call
those nerves the pacemakers of the body.
dizziness. Why? Because the autonomic
nervous system controls the adaptation
to stress. So when you stand up, the
blood should be contracted and go up to
your brain. If it doesn't, you're going
to feel lightaded, dizzy, and you can
actually collapse. That condition, if
it's severe enough, is called POTS. And
that is a severe B1 deficiency because
the autonomic nervous system is not
working. Now, a lot of people have a
mild problem of this. They don't realize
it. They would just they kind of get up
and they just they have to kind of
stabilize themselves because they're
getting dizzy. I used to have that. I
didn't know what that was. That's not
normal. That's a problem with this right
here. All right. Next one is low
tolerance to stress. How many people do
you know that have a very short fuse?
You just say one little thing and it
triggers them and then they blow up.
They have no patience. If they're
driving behind a slow driver, oh my
gosh, that's crazy. if they ever get a
situation where they're in a daycare
center and they have to babysit like 23
kids that all have blood sugar problems,
they can't tolerate that. In fact, I
don't think anyone can tolerate that.
But your tolerance for stress is
dependent on the autonomic nervous
system, which is dependent on this right
here. Next one is anxiety. What is
anxiety? Anxiety is kind of where you're
stuck in this worry. You're constantly
thinking about problems more than you
should. If someone that you know has a
low tolerance to stress or has anxiety
or nervous tension and you just gave
them a little bit of B vitamin or maybe
nutritional yeast that's loaded with B1,
you would find within 3 to four minutes,
they're just this overall calming
effect. They're just going to be chilled
out. They're going to feel so much
better. I used to do that in practice
all the time and people would be blown
away. Uh they didn't realize that was a
vitamin deficiency. They thought that
was part of their personality. It
wasn't. Okay, next one is uh
insufficient or REM sleep. REM stands
for rapid eye movement. And that usually
happens at the second half of your sleep
cycles. And so without this, you're not
going to have enough of this. So you
might have early morning insomnia where
you you just can't get that full seven
or eight hours for some reason. Uh your
voice is weaker, especially if you're
like a singer or you use your voice in
broadcasting and it's weaker. It could
be part of the autonomic nervous system.
Uh dry skin because the oil glands,
sebaceous glands are controlled by the
autonomic nervous system. So that's
another one. Also the digestive system,
constipation,
bloating. Your pancreas cannot release
the enzymes. So then you get more
bloating, constipation. We get this
incomplete digestion. Also we have poor
bile output. So you can't digest all the
fats because all the valves and the
smooth muscle of the digestive system is
controlled by the nerves. And so if you
don't have enough of that nerve control,
everything kind of becomes weak and and
flaccid and and it doesn't work. And
then we have blurred vision, which a lot
of times people think, oh, my eyes are
just getting bad because I'm getting
older. It could be B1. And then also
restless legs syndrome. I used to have
this when I was doing the Ben & Jerry's
and the pasta and all the other all the
other stuff I was eating. But restless
leg syndrome is terrible because it
happens more at night nocturnal where
there's all this energy in your legs and
you have to go run to get it out. I
mean, could you imagine how many
different drugs you could be on separate
drugs for separate problems or even
supplements when all of these things are
coming from one thing? this, but at the
root of it, it's too much of that. And
what's even more bizarre about this
whole thing is the RDAs for uh B1, 1.2
milligrams. That's insane. That's a
joke. It's ridiculous. Those numbers are
based on just preventing the crippling
disease of Barry Berry, which is a very
severe disease that can affect the heart
and especially the brain. We need so
much more B1, especially with the amount
of sugar and snacking that we're doing
now just to maintain different organs.
And so if our health care system is
based on this, you know, outdated
information, it's really hard to get
people healthy because the nutritionists
and the doctors are not going to connect
the dots on just the amounts that you
need to maintain a healthy body, let
alone correct a uh deficiency or use
sufficient therapeutic doses of thamine
to correct a problem. You can't use uh
normal amounts, 1.2 milligrams, to
correct any of these right here. it's
not going to work. So, what would happen
if you didn't eat a lot of sugar, okay,
and you had enough B1? Guess what? You
would feel calm.
You would feel focused.
You would not have attention deficit
disorder. You'd be able to focus in on
something and actually complete
projects. You would also feel low stress
even if you had a lot of stress around
you because you could tolerate the
stress. The tolerance of stress really
relates to your blood sugars. Those
people that you know that have a a low
tolerance to stress are usually eating
way too many carbs. If you're not
consuming sugar in your diet, then your
body switches over to ketones. You're
not going to have this appetite. You're
definitely not going to crave. You're
also going to be sharp in your mind.
You're going to actually have clarity.
Your sleep is going to be great, which
then means your energy is going to be
great the next day. And you're going to
be awake, which should be a new concept
for a lot of people. This is where I am
right here. This is where I used to be.
During the day when I was awake, I
actually was not awake. I had brain fog.
I was actually half asleep. Now I'm
fully awake when I'm awake. And then
when I'm sleeping, I'm sleeping, which
is a really cool thing. You'll be able
to digest. You'll have low brain
chatter. So, you're going to be more in
control of your mind and your brain.
You're definitely going to have more
endurance. You're going to be running on
ketones, which is a more efficient fuel,
and your brain is going to run cleaner
and more efficient. The biggest lie out
there, and I did a whole video on this,
is that sugar or glucose is the primary
fuel. No, it is not. Our body's primary
fuel is ketones. And I'm going to prove
it right now with just one little piece
of data. You wouldn't even be here right
now if glucose was the primary fuel
because back in the day, let's just say
the prehistoric or stone age time, how
much glucose was available in the
environment? Were we able to order
pizza? Did we have snacks? Did we have a
refrigerator? No. We were lucky if we
ate once a day. In order for our brains
to survive, we had to have some other
fuel. And that was ketones. Ketones come
from fat. And this is also why we store
fat. So we can actually run on ketones
between meals. It's a survival
mechanism. Sugar or glucose was never
the primary fuel because it wasn't
available. Okay? So I think that's the
best argument right there to prove that
fact. And since that time, our body has
not evolved to live on pure sugar. When
I say cut the sugar and when I say get
into ketosis, I'm not even saying cut it
down 100%. I'm only saying bring it down
to under 50 grams per day, which is a
lot easier than what people might think
because you can still have carbs. You
can have berries and you can get the
carbs and vegetables and some of the
fruits, but just you want to keep it
below 50 g and you don't want to consume
those carbohydrates in the form of
sugar. You want something that is whole
food that has the fiber that can be
slowly absorbed in the body. And the
other hidden thing to talk about is this
right here. And this is corn starch.
Okay? They produce a lot of hidden carbs
in the form of either corn starch or
modified food starch, maltodextrin or
wheat flour. And all of that is
industrial starch, which is really just
added sugar. So, if we combine all the
starch to the sugar, the amount of sugar
that we're really eating is a massive
amount. And so, we want to bring all
that down below 50 g. That means you're
not going to drink juice. You're not
going to drink soda. You can drink water
and tea and coffee. You want to have
high quality animal meats and proteins
and eggs and fish. You can do
vegetables. You can do nuts. You can do
cheese. You can do yogurt, unsweetened,
kefir, you can do butter, avocado, olive
oil. And so what would happen once you
start doing this is going to be like a
little uh transition in the first few
days where it might be a little bit
difficult, but if you take electrolytes
and B vitamins, it might only take uh
two maybe 3 days to make the transition.
So now you're officially in ketosis.
You're going to find that your craving
and hunger starts to go down. You'll
start noticing some clarity in your
mind. Your mood will start to come up.
And that's really the first week. The
second week is when your energy starts
to go up. All of a sudden, like you have
all this energy, your sleep is better.
Your digestion is better. You're not
going to be as bloated. You're going to
also notice your skin is just like
looking better. If you had inflammation
anywhere in your body, that's going to
be improved. And you're no longer going
to have this up and down uh mood
fluctuation. things are going to be
really really kind of consistent and uh
steady. Now, in the third week, all of
the things that you experience are going
to be enhanced, especially weight loss,
especially your cognitive function and
especially your mood. And if you had
anxiety or depression, that's going to
be lifted. Your appetite is going to go
down. It's going to make it easier to go
from one meal to the next. So, you might
be at the point now where you're like,
"Wow, hm, this might be a good thing.
This might be something I might want to
do, but you need the details of how to
do it. So, for that information, you
need to watch this video right here on
how to get started. So, click it now and
check it out.
