Today we're going to talk about the
number one root cause of all chronic
disease. If you take a look at any
disease, it goes through a cycle and it
starts with some root cause and then it
goes through a series of things inside
your cells that start breaking down till
eventually you develop a disease. In
this case, it's type 2 diabetes. And
what this video is about is addressing
what medicine completely ignores. What
medicine focuses on is the latest stage
symptom that occurs at the end of this
evolution from start to actual disease
creation. And so their whole goal is to
label this disease this symptom and then
treat it with a medication. The problem
that I have with that model is that
there's side effects that occur and then
those side effects are treated with
another medication that's called polyarm
pharmacy. And if you take a look at a
nursing home or an assisted living home,
you'll see people on seven to 10 or more
drugs, some people up to 40 to 50
different medications. And so my
viewpoint is that the more medications
you give a person, the less healthy
they're going to become. And this really
occurs because of the system. If they
were to focus on root causes, you'd be
able to prevent so many problems. But
there's not a lot of money in focusing
on a root cause. So now the question is,
what is the root cause of chronic
illness? I looked at this problem very
deeply. I kept narrowing down the list
and said, well, wait a second. There's
an earlier thing to that. So that's not
a root cause. And the list got shorter
and shorter and shorter until I realized
something. Our environment has changed
pretty fast, but our genes did not catch
up to that. We are in a completely
different universe where you can get any
food. It's available 24/7. Over 50% of
the calories in adults is ultrarocessed
food calories. Something that we've
never experienced way back in the day.
We are constantly feeding ourselves
24/7. There's not really any break
between that. We pretty much eat
constantly. We live in spaces with
artificial light pretty much all the day
until right before you go to bed at
night. We are on our screens jacking up
dopamine virtually all day long. We are
living in toxins like we've never before
experienced even now. It's called
forever chemicals. It's in the water
supply unfortunately. And on top of
that, we've really sterilized our food
and our environments. and that child
doesn't necessarily develop the immune
system that they need. And they've done
studies on this uh with the Amish. And
they compared these kids raised on a
farm with kids that were raised in more
of a sterile environment. And they found
there was a much stronger immune system
in the farm kids because they were
exposed to farm dust and dirt which
developed part of the immune system. And
so the sterilization of the environment
as well as foods, we pasteurize food.
Let's just take milk for example. Way
back in the day, we did not pasteurize
our milk. But way back here, they
fermented their foods, right? In cheese,
yogurt, and that really helps the
diversity of microbiome. But what do we
do in modern time? Even with kids, we'll
give them skim milk that's pasteurized.
It's not fermented. It's very unnatural.
And kids will develop a lot of allergies
to that. And many times we don't even
allow the immune system to strengthen.
We depend more on vaccines. But the
point is that we constantly are
bypassing mother nature and a lot of
times we mess it up. Way back in this
period of time, we ate real food, plenty
of nutrients. Here a lot of the foods
that we eat, ultrarocessed foods create
nutrient deficiencies. So there are
definitely epidemic levels of nutrient
deficiencies right now because of that.
Back here we had a lot of physical work
and also back then we had a lot of sun
so we also had a lot of vitamin D.
Vitamin D is the number one missing
nutrient that our entire planet has and
it's creating a lot of problems. And
then modern time sedentary, right? We do
a lot of sitting around with very little
physical work. But think about the
environment that we used to live in a
training camp for your immune system.
Massively diverse microbiome back then.
If you take a look at one of the most
common illnesses right now, it's
autoimmune diseases. I mean, we did not
have autoimmune diseases 50 to 75 years
ago. There is a genetic problem with
autoimmune diseases. It's called H L.
I'm not going to give you the the long
name of what this is. This gene has the
most diversified altered gene type in
the entire body. And that's because this
is really about exposing the immune
system to various pathogens and
microbes, friendly and unfriendly. This
is a gene that helped you survive way
back here, but it doesn't help you
survive in modern times. And just to
help you understand this a little bit
more, I want to go through my genetics.
Okay? I had my genes tested just to kind
of push this point home. Now, many of
you may have gotten your DNA tested
before. Some of you have not. It does
give you some valuable information, what
potential problems you could have if
your habits in your environment are not
quite right. So then you can align your
actual biology with the correct things
to do. But first, let me just tell you
what's going on with my genes. I do have
an autoimmune risk for gluten, and it
just so happens to be part of this gene
right here. So, if I consume gluten, I'm
at risk of getting an inflammatory issue
with my gut. Every time we went on a
vacation, my wife and I, I would end up
in some bed in some hotel all night long
with stomach pain because I would be
eating a ton of wheat products with
gluten. And I had really no awareness
back then of the connection, but I sure
do now. And I do not consume any gluten
whatsoever. The second problem I had was
with choline. Apparently, I do not
absorb choline very well. Choline is
really important in preventing a fatty
liver, but it's also important in the
neurotransmitter in your brain. And if
you think about all these problems with
these genes, they all had beneficial
survival things back here, but they just
don't work in modern time. Back here, we
ate the whole animal, nose to tail. We
ate the organs. One of the best foods
for choline is liver. And so, do I eat
liver? No. I don't like liver, but you
can get enough choline in egg yolks. And
I have a lot of eggs. So, that's what
I'm doing to solve that problem. The
next thing that showed up is I have a
major problem with vitamin D activation.
And so, I also have a history of severe
severe low back pain. I don't get low
back pain anymore. I take a good amount
of vitamin D through the winter. and I
get a lot of sun during the summer. The
next thing I have a problem with is
inflammation from too many
polyunsaturated fatty acids. So that
would be seed oils. If I consume a lot
of seed oils, I will just fill up with
inflammation. And that's exactly what
happened. Even in my 20s, I had so much
arthritis in my fingers and my back and
I was just downing junk food. and I'm 60
right now and I am way healthier now
than I was back then. The next thing
that showed up was my genes for
inflammation. Highly susceptible to
becoming inflamed if I eat junk food. If
I overtrain, I get inflamed right away.
Now that's good and bad because what
happened because I was eating so poorly
in the first part of my life. I became
such a from inflammation that
that woke me up and I was aware and I
needed to change something versus other
people it might not affect them
initially but later on in life they
might find out about it. So on the
positive side, my immune system is
strong to prevent against things like
cancer because my immune system can kill
off cancer better than other genetics.
But on the flip side, if I go off my
eating plan, I become an inflamed
I'm very susceptible to
developing autoimmune disease, but only
if my environment is not matching those
genetics. Now, the next one has to do
with my detoxification enzymes. Now,
think about it. Back here, the level of
chemicals was so much lower than right
now. My genetics have not evolved to
deal with the level of toxicity.
So, if I was a smoker and I drank
alcohol and I exposed myself to a lot of
chemicals, I'm going to feel it more
than other people simply because of my
weakness within the detoxification
enzymes. What I should be doing to
strengthen that is to not only avoid
some of these toxins and have a better
water filter and live in a cleaner air
and live on a farm, which I'm lucky to
have that opportunity to do, but also
consume foods that help naturally
detoxify things like garlic, onions,
which I do on a daily basis. Another
interesting weakness that I have is that
my genes have lower amount of nitric
oxide bioavailability. Now, that has
everything to do with high blood
pressure. So, I have a tendency to get
high blood pressure and more
inflammation because I don't make enough
nitric oxide, but I do because of all
these other things I'm doing now. But if
my environment was like I was when I was
20 years old, I would have a problem
with nitric oxide. I probably have high
blood pressure by now. And just so you
know, one way to increase nitric oxide
is to consume beets or arugula salad,
but also sunlight. Sun can give you
nitric oxide and so can exercise as
well. So now I'm going to show you 20
things to reset your habits and your
lifestyle. Number one is to go outside
and expose yourself to light within 60
minutes of getting up. And I'm telling
you, out of all the things that can
really mess up your health, it's poor
sleep. Because if your sleep is not
right, it can severely affect your blood
sugar. It can severely affect your mood.
The night shift as a thing is even
classified as a probable carcinogen
because of how important sleep is within
the genetics of the entire body. And if
you're outside and it's the sun's there,
you don't ever want to just look into
the light itself. You can look slightly
away and the sun will kind of get into
your eye. But also realize that the
infrared that comes off the sun
penetrates your body. It can go right
through your clothes into your body and
it can actually increase melatonin. So,
this should be a very important thing to
do in the morning. Number one. Number
two, you want to dim the lights 90
minutes before you go to bed. How many
people have the lights completely
bright? And it's usually fluorescent or
artificial lights all the way until they
go to bed. Not good. You want to start
dimming things or even being in a dark
room 90 minutes before you go to bed.
This will start to reset this sarcadian
clock and it's going to really help the
quality of sleep and a lot of other
things. Number three, you want to lock
the wake time seven days a week. In
other words, you want to be consistent
waking up and also going to sleep. Your
body does not like this change in when
you go to sleep and when you wake up. I
mean, let's just take jet lag for
example. You fly somewhere and all of a
sudden you're in a different time zone.
Boy, that just throws off everything. If
you do have jet leg, I found if you take
a big dosage, maybe 50,000 IUs of
vitamin D3 right before you fly, those
jet leg symptoms will be less. Okay? But
be consistent with your sleep all the
time. Number four, put your workouts
into a schedule to remind you to keep in
regular exercise. Putting that back in
is going to be super therapeutic at
every level. Number five, no eating 4
hours before you go to bed. This might
not exactly match what happened in the
past, but it's a very good idea not go
to sleep on a full bloated stomach. All
right, number six, 6 to 8 hours of an
eating window. So that would be a 16 or
18hour fast. Okay, this definitely
matches what happened long ago because
food was not as available and there's
probably days where we didn't eat and
there was probably times where we ate a
lot in a short period of time but it
wasn't so consistent and then when we
start matching that our bodies do so
well. So keep that fasting window in
because the frequent eating is a killer
for insulin problems. All right, number
seven is a 10 to 15 minute walk after
eating. First of all, you're going to
burn up the sugar. Second, you're going
to be able to add more exercise. Super
healthy. Simple tip. Number eight, try
to consume something fermented with
every meal. Whether it's kefir, yogurt,
sauerkraut, because of the diversity of
microbiome, it's going to really, really
help you. Unsweetened chocolate feeds
the microbiome. I put that in my coffee
in the morning. It doesn't have any
sugar in it. Number nine is nature time.
Three times a week.
very therapeutic to get out in the park,
go in nature, go in the mountains. I
actually do this every single day. I'm
constantly walking. It's super super
healthy. Number 10, you want to get your
hands in the soil gardening. And I got
myself into a really great situation
where I'm able to live on a farm. And
you talk about getting dirty. I am
around a lot of microbes and I never get
sick. My immune system is super super
strong. Number 11. If the environment
that you're in is polluted, you need to
get a house filter, a HEPA purifier,
just to keep the clean air in your
house, so when you're sleeping at night,
you can breathe in clean air. And also,
you want to get a filter that pulls out
as many chemicals as you can. Same thing
with a shower filter. Now, if you can
actually have mineral water or spring
water, that would be awesome. But if you
can't, just get a filter. very very
important because the majority of
chemicals come from your water. 13.
Fragrance-free hair products and skin
creams and lotions and makeups without
the fragrances, without the chemicals as
much as possible. If you're cooking, use
some cookware like stainless steel that
is not going to give off additional
chemicals. Number 15, and this is
probably the most important, no
ultrarocessed foods in the house. Number
16, you want to limit going out to a
restaurant because you don't know all
the ingredients. You don't know the oils
that they use. It's really hard to avoid
certain chemicals when you're going to
restaurants and especially fast food
restaurants. Number 17, sauna or hot
shower is very, very therapeutic to help
to stimulate the epigenetics and create
a micro stress in the body to help your
body rebound and adapt. Uh the same
thing with the cold bath or a cold
shower. Nasal breathing can help you go
to sleep really nice and help increase
nitric oxide and help with stress
because you condition the air when it
goes in the lungs. And there's a lot of
different benefits to that. I've done a
video just on that. I would recommend
taking hourly breaks from your computer.
Get some space. Look outside. Get your
vision going out. I am guilty of
spending literally eight hours straight
on the computer. actually a lot more
than that for yours and it's just not
healthy. And then number 20, white noise
can kind of help filter out the noisy
environment outside because sleep is
like a nutrient, right? It's so
important because if you're not
sleeping, it can affect so many
different parts of your body. Now, if
you found this video helpful and you
want something equally as helpful,
there's a fascinating video on how to
reduce stress in a very unique way. In
fact, I show you many different ways to
reduce stress. And for that data, I put
it all in this amazing video right here.
Check it out.
