Today we're going to discuss how big
pharma and big food actually buy social
media influencers. What if the people
that you really trust online for health
information were not actually giving you
their independent opinion? What if I
were to tell you that their opinions
were really shaped by certain
corporations,
big pharma, big food. This includes what
you eat, what health information they
share with you, how they tell you to get
healthy, or even how they invalidate or
discredit other health influencers. What
I'm about to share with you is not a
conspiracy theory. This is documented
hardcore facts, and it's happening all
over the place. What am I talking about?
I'm talking about a hidden secret
between big pharma, big food, other
corporations, and health influencers.
So, let's take a look behind the curtain
because it's going to blow you away. It
actually shocked me when I found out
about this. You actually can rent a
social media influencer, one post at a
time. Apparently, everyone has their own
price. And with the new corporate
marketing, influencers can make a
tremendous amount of money. And one of
the big problems that big pharma has is
trust. Trust has been disintegrating.
They have to get the trust from
somewhere. They have to borrow it from
somewhere. Well, guess where they get it
from? Social media influencers because
they have something that these
corporations don't have credibility.
Now, if I just take big pharma and ask
the question, why are they losing trust?
Well, this one website explains a lot
because this site shows the accumulated
corruption of big pharma. If we take the
total penalties of all of big pharma
since the year 2000, it totals over $126
billion
and over 60 billion dollar penalties
were related to patient injury and harm.
And you can see the documents right
here. 25 million Johnson and Johnson not
from one offense but 81 times. Okay. And
then you have look at Fizer 107
different penalties totaling 11 billion.
And then you look at Merc 90 violations
over $10 billion. Unfortunately, modern
medicine with the help of big pharma has
changed the focus from health to a
business. 90% of media on TV is from big
pharma. Well, guess what? Now 90% of
digital marketing is from big pharma as
well. If we take a look at how much
money influencers are getting on
average, it's about 20 to $25 per,000
views. But if that influencer has more
trust, we can multiply that by 8 to 12
times. So that $20 per,000 views now is
at $240 per,000 views. This is
incredible. the amount of money that's
involved here. So I had this idea. I
typed under chat, what would Dr. Berg
get paid if I did a post on social
media? What chatbt said was that my
credibility is very very high. People do
trust me. I would qualify for the trust
multiplier. So if I did one post 60 to
90 seconds on YouTube, I could literally
get $250,000 to $500,000.
That's at an average of 500 to 1.5
million views. But if I got more views
over time, that could actually go over a
million dollars
for one freaking post. That's crazy. And
an Instagram reel that got 500,000 to a
million impressions, I would get
150,000 to $300,000.
Tik Tok is a little less. You know, if I
got 500,000 to 2 million views, I would
get a h 100,000 to $250,000.
I mean, this is crazy with the amount of
money that's involved in these marketing
campaigns that people have no clue. The
reason I have trust is because I don't
do things like this. And if you've been
watching my channel, you see actually
what I'm doing. I'm actually helping
people. I'm not endorsing drugs or junk
food. Now, another hidden connection is
big pharma does not go directly to an
influencer and coordinate this. They
work through PR firms and then within
those corporations, they literally have
units or teams of people that work with
social media people, find them, hire
them, train them, craft the messages
just how they want them. So it sounds as
authentic as possible. Now, legally
through the FTC, the Federal Trade
Commission, they're supposed to disclose
this financial payment, but more than
40% of all social media influencers
don't disclose that they're being paid.
And it's really difficult to find them
because it's not in any database. Uh,
unless you are a doctor and then there's
a database of how much money that you
get paid. But if the FTC finds out
you're not disclosing these payments,
you could easily get a $50,000 fine. Let
me just show you one example. Okay, Dr.
Mike. Dr. Mike is an osteopath. He puts
out reaction videos on different things.
He's really pro medicine, pro- vaccine,
anti-maha, anti- RFK. But he did this
whole video on vaccines, talking to all
these antibaxers.
>> I have never been compensated by a
vaccine company to give vaccines.
>> So, right there, Dr. Mike is saying he's
not getting paid by a vaccine company,
but if you do a search online, it's very
easy to find out that Dr. Mike does get
money from big pharma. Take a look at
this disclosure. Dr. Mike got over a
million dollars from Abbott Labs. Abbott
Labs sells certain vaccines. It's a
vaccine big pharma company. So, not only
did Dr. Mike get paid by Big Pharma, but
he said he didn't get paid. And I didn't
see any disclosure on that post. But I'm
not an attorney, but he should be
telling people how much money he's
getting paid by Big Pharma. Another
group that's defending uh certain junk
foods is the dieticians. Certain
dietitians are actually getting in
trouble from the FTC. In November 2023,
the FTC sent warning letters to two
trade groups, the American Beverage
Association and the Canadian Sugar
Institute and 12 registered dietitian
nutritionists and other online health
influencers, warning them about the lack
of adequate disclosures in their
Instagram and Tik Tok posts that they
were apparently hired to promote the
safety of aspartame or the consumption
of sugar containing products,
respectively FTC. He said, "In a warning
letter sent to registered dietitian Mary
Ellen Phillips, the FTC said you posted
dietary advice on Instagram endorsing
the safety of aspartame." And it appears
that you were paid by the American
Beverage Association to make this post.
But this is just one of many warning
letters that I was reading on their
site. And only 60% of influencers are
actually disclosing this with 40% not
really letting you know. So, it's really
hard to determine who's being paid and
who's not. I would look at the
intention. Is the intention to help move
you in the direction of less
ultrarocessed foods, fewer chemical
drugs, or more ultrarocessed foods or
more toxic drugs? Coca-Cola will
actually rent influencers and have them
push the message of obesity is about
energy balance and you should just
exercise more to shift the attention off
the sugary drinks. One of the
organizations that I think is the most
corrupt and this is just my opinion is
the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics,
this is a group that makes up over a
100,000 dieticians. They shape nutrition
policy. But if you go to a website
called US Right to Know, I'll put the
link down below, and read about their
investigation on this group through the
Freedom of Information Act, they found
80,000 pages of correspondence between
Big Food and that organization. The
Academy and its foundation have invested
in ultrarocessed food and pharmaceutical
companies. I mean, talk about a conflict
of interest. How can they be independent
if they're actually benefiting
financially from these companies?
Academy leaders have been employed by or
consulted for multinational food
pharmaceutical big ad corporations. And
check out where they get funding from.
We have Albert Laboratories over
$800,000. They have the flu vaccine,
Pepsi Cola, Coca-Cola, Hershey's,
General Mills. But the most powerful
trick that they're using is not
necessarily about who they're paying,
but how they frame the message. You'll
see this all over the place with
influencers. Like most of their content
is just one message over and over and
over again. And they will nullify or
discredit influencers that are saying
seed oils are bad. You know, some of the
arguments are, well, seed oils
themselves are not inherently bad,
especially if they're not heated. But
who buys or uses coldressed seed oils?
Like no one. I mean, it's like even hard
to find them. What are you going to buy?
Some corn oil and put on your salad. No,
they're used for cooking the majority of
the time. Well, even before you buy it,
they have to heat it up, right? Which
creates all sorts of byproducts. It
creates toxicity in the body, but they
don't really talk about the aldahhides
or the byproducts. They're talking about
the oil itself. But the amount of
processing they do, solvents,
deodorizers, I mean, Cedo has been known
to actually create insulin resistance.
So when you see an influencer supporting
that,
suspect that they might be sponsored.
Take the American Heart Association, the
organization that told us to replace the
saturated fats with the unsaturated
fats, the seed oils, right? I mean, you
talk about conflict of interest and
corruption. I mean, when this video is
done, just do a search on who funds them
and then you'll see how they defend and
protect the junk food industry. And then
what about the committee in the dietary
guidelines, right? This is the committee
that formed the food pyramid. One of the
committee members had over 150 different
ties to big food, big pharma or big a
and there's no transparency. You have to
dig to find out these connections. Here
we have RFK fighting for transparency,
more safety studies, less junk food, and
he's being attacked. And the reason why
is he's a big threat to industry. I
mean, let me ask you, who do you go to
to get truthful health information? You
probably go to some health expert
online, but a lot of people are putting
more trust in certain health gurus than
even their doctor. Why is that? because
it seems like the whole medical
profession has been heavily influenced
by big pharma and I would say 95% of all
doctors would not recommend a low carb
ketogenic diet because for example the
ketogenic diet is considered dangerous.
It can create atriofibrillation. It's
all over the news so it must be true,
right? The so-called low carb study that
shows that keto will cause
atriofibrillation
was not even a low carb diet. And the
group that had the lowest carbohydrates,
which basically is like 44.8%
carbohydrates, which is not keto had
slightly more atriofibrillation, but
that's not science, okay? That's not
even a low carb diet. There's another
playbook involving mythbusting. Probably
the majority of myth busting videos,
they're sponsored. These videos actually
label alternative viewpoints as
misinformation or as dangerous. And you
see them all over the place, right?
Attacking Maha Make America Healthy
Again or RFK or even Dr. Berg's
information is misinformation. Of
course, they never give you the details,
but they just repetitively tell you that
over and over and over again. And the
other things they'll do, especially with
big food, is they'll do this whole
moderation campaign. The next generation
will learn about health not from doing
their own research, but from sponsored
education. And I think the antidote to
all this is awareness. being able to
connect the dots and really understand
who's feeding you true information or
who's feeding you propaganda. If you
thought this video was interesting, you
should check out my next video which is
entitled The Seven Natural Remedies That
Big Pharma is Hiding. And I put that up
right here. Check it out.
