Hi guys. I want to talk about why apple cider vinegar helps you lose belly fat.
But it's not for the reason that you might think. It doesn't go directly and
start dissolving fat. In fact, I did another video, which I'll put a link down
below, that talks about apple cider vinegar and the fact that it doesn't
have a lot of vitamins or nutrition or minerals but indirectly, it helps you
absorb a lot of vitamins, minerals and even proteins. So the real true benefit
of apple cider vinegar is the acetic acid, okay? You can get acetic acid in
other types of vinegar as well but apple cider vinegar is kind of easy to get. So what does this
acid do? It actually helps you lower blood sugars and it does that by
increasing the glucose uptake in your muscles. So it helps you absorb sugar, a
more efficient fuel for the muscle. It also decreases something called insulin
resistance. So if we take a look at insulin as a key that goes in the cell
that unlocks the door to allow fuel to go in the cell and you have resistance
where the key is blocked there. Then what happens is you don't get the fuel in the
cell, the signal comes back to the pancreas. It tells the pancreas to make
more insulin. You get fatter in the gut. That's what the gut is. It's just, this is
all insulin, it's too much insulin. And so if you were to fix this little thing
right here, the receptor for insulin, you can lower the need for the pancreas to
make more insulin, okay? So just to recap, taking apple cider
vinegar, you can get the active ingredient, acetic acid, which will
therefore, decrease insulin resistance, okay?
Decreasing the need for insulin, that's going to lower blood sugars, increase
glucose uptake the muscles. So we're also going to get increased absorption of
minerals, vitamins and protein, which is going to then heal insulin resistance.
And this is why you're going to lose belly fat, okay?
Indirectly. So it all happens indirectly. It doesn't attack the fat directly. Now I
would recommend at least one tablespoon in a glass of water eight ounces, okay?
Eight ounces before each meal. That's all you need. You can take it in tablet
form as well. Alright? Thanks for watching.
So Karen and I are going to create some more recipes but we wanted to know
what recipes are you interested in, okay? Click on the link and let us know.
