Why does the Brazil nut have so much
selenium versus every other nut or food
doesn't even compare to the amount of
selenium in these nuts? And today we're
going to talk about how selenium could
take your health to the next level. And
we're also going to cover toxicity. It's
possible that you can consume too much
selenium. So at the end of this video,
you're going to have a much better
knowledge of how you can use selenium to
improve your health. What I like about
this topic is it's the cheapest way to
create the biggest impact on your
health. You're talking 10 cents a day.
Everyone can afford that because what
most people don't realize is how
deficient in selenium they are. It's
actually very very hard to get it in the
foods that we consume. Plus, a lot of
the foods that we consume deplete
selenium. So, just by consuming two of
these Brazil nuts a day, you're going to
get over a,000%
of the daily requirements for selenium.
So that comes out to 135 to 180
micrograms. Selenium is a trace mineral
that works with enzymes to help with
your hair increasing the protein in hair
called keratin.
So when people are deficient in
selenium, they get thinning of the hair.
So selenium is directly involved in hair
growth. And so the selenium in the
Brazil nut is going to take your immune
system to the next level. Wait, do you
hear what it does for the immune system?
But I first want to also talk about
testosterone. Testosterone is not just
for men. It's for women, too.
Testosterone is kind of like the
precursor or the building block of
estrogen. It's also important to act as
an antioxidant to protect the cells in
the testicles that make testosterone and
that make sperm. And so this is why
selenium will not just increase
testosterone, it can also help increase
sperm count. So, it's good for
fertility, but it also helps support the
ovary. But I really want to dive right
into like the big thing that I think
selenium can help most people with, and
that is the immune system. So, check
this out. Selenium supports a very
specific cell in your immune system
called the T- helpper cell. T-H helpper
cell is kind of like the higher level
general that's in the Pentagon that's
really pulling the strings and
coordinating this whole attack. And if
someone doesn't have enough selenium to
feed that T- helpper cell, the amount of
those cells goes down, making you very
vulnerable to infections, pathogens,
cancer, and all sorts of other things
that come along with immune problems
like inflammation. Now, if we take a
look at subtypes of tea helper cells, we
have TH1 and TH2. And if this ratio is
off, you're going to develop allergies,
autoimmune diseases, or become more
susceptible to autoimmune diseases or
even getting cancer. So, you can look at
that ratio as the perfect balance of
surveillance for the army to be able to
look out and make sure everything is
working. And so selenium is like the raw
material that feeds the tea helpper
cell. And I just want to tell you as a
side note, one big factor that is
involved in this is vitamin D. So if
you're both deficient in selenium and
vitamin D, you're going to be in big
trouble. The other interesting thing
about the T- helpper cell is that it
requires huge amounts of ATP energy to
work. So you can look at selenium as a
way to neutralize or protect you against
all this oxidation. And we need healthy
amounts of the tea helpper cell to
actually tell the immune system to stand
down when it needs to stand down.
Selenium even controls the tea cells to
let it know when it has to have a fever
or not. So that fever is controlled by
that little part of the immune system
that is fed with selenium. In other
words, selenium is really important in
preventing an overreactive
immune reaction. And just as a side
note, so is vitamin D. Also, the tea
helper cell helps prevent
selfattack or the immune system
generating antibodies to attack itself.
It actually prevents autoimmune
diseases. And so the big question a lot
of people have is like, why did I get an
autoimmune disease? Well, obviously
there must have been something that
you're missing or that made your immune
system vulnerable, which could have been
a low vitamin D situation, low selenium,
it could have been stress, other things.
But mainly people are deficient in
selenium because it's no longer in our
diet. I mean, how many people eat Brazil
nuts? Not many. You can get a certain
amount of selenium from oysters or tuna
or the kidney from pork, but a lot of
people don't eat that. But the best
bioavailable form of selenium is going
to be in the Brazil nut. The other
fascinating thing about selenium and the
tea helpper cell is that it helps to
support antiviral
and anti-cancer
properties. There's a really fascinating
book. I'll put the link down below and
this is what really causes AIDS by
Harold Foster. The virus in AIDS goes
after this specific tea helper cell and
selenium prevents it from being
deactivated. The next thing that
selenium will do, it'll help build up
glutathione which is the master
antioxidant not just of your liver but
of the entire body as well. So selenium
is a precursor for glutathione. You
can't make glutathione without selenium.
So an average person is bombarded with
so many different toxins, insecttoides,
herbicides, fungicides, it all ends up
in the liver. And if you have enough
glutathione, you can deal with it. I
just like that strategy better than
completely avoiding every single toxin
on the planet because you'd have to
isolate yourself into some place on
planet Earth, which is a lot more
difficult. And glutathione is also
really important in protecting the liver
and also protecting membranes. those
membranes become infiltrated with seed
oils and toxicity and all sorts of
things. If you have enough glutathione,
you can counter or neutralize a lot of
that toxicity. But also on the flip
side, when you increase toxicity, you
deplete more glutathione. So hopefully
you'll have enough selenium to make
glutathione. With enough selenium from
Brazil nuts, you can have beautiful
skin. also in the production of normal
insulin. We've already talked about the
liver, but let's talk about the
mitochondria. The mitochondria depends
on enough selenium. If you don't have
the selenium, you can easily get
mitochondrial damage. And when we're
talking about hair or testosterone or
even immune system deep in those cells,
we're really talking about damage to the
mitochondria. That's where it originates
if it doesn't have all these co-actors.
Selenium also helps increase GABA, which
can actually lower anxiety, help you
feel calmer, help you sleep at night.
But now, let me explain
why selenium is so high in the Brazil
nut. The Brazil nut tree is in the
Amazon. And this tree lives to be 500 to
a,000 years old. What's very unique
about this tree is it has extremely deep
roots. The roots go very very deep into
the earth way deeper than any other tree
in the area and they go so far into the
earth where they can pull additional
minerals and trace minerals that you
can't get at the superficial level. You
have to realize the Brazil nut is not
just high in selenium. It's also high in
copper, magnesium,
manganese. But apparently from a
survival mechanism what this tree does
is it pulls up this selenium with the
help of a certain fungus in the earth
which mobilizes this mineral. It breaks
down the mineral. It gives it to the
root of this tree and now the tree's
roots can start pulling up the selenium
all the way up the tree which has to
travel a very long distance to
eventually get into that nut. Okay,
which is really a seed. And so the seed
now has this extra protection to become
more resilient against fungus, viruses,
pathogens because the very nut itself
needs an immune system. And so what
humans are doing is we're piggybacking
off of the immune benefits that this
amazing old tree has developed over a
long period of time. And we're able to
use those immune benefits for ourselves.
Isn't that wild? And even the different
forms of selenium that are in a Brazil
nut are bioactive for us. So, we can
very easily assimilate it. It's not just
regular selenium. It's actually in a
protein form that we can easily consume
and use in our bodies. What about
toxicity? It's actually very rare, but
you could actually become toxic from
selenium. If you consume 10 to 20 nuts
every day for months, potentially you
could become toxic. But what we're
talking about is just two nuts every
single day. Now, since I'm a health guy,
I want to give you something to improve
your health. And what I want to give you
is my daily routine of what I do as far
as my habits, what I do in the morning,
what I generally eat to have a healthy
lifestyle. To download it, just click
the link in the description right now.
Then I want you to watch a parallel
video that talks about the importance of
vitamin D on the immune system, which is
an equally important topic. And I put
that video right here. Check it out
right now.
