Today we're going to talk about how to
live over a hundred years. Then we're
going to get into 18 scientifically
proven tips on exactly how to do it in a
practical way. I'm going to make it
super simple. I'm also going to give you
a summarization after I dissected
certain countries that have more people
that live over 100 years old than any
other country in the world. I don't know
if you know how old I am or my history,
but I'm six years old and I am way
healthier now than I was in my late 20s.
And I've done a lot of deep dive into
this topic of longevity. So, I'm going
to share with you some really important
information that's going to be
practical. But I want to start out
showing you this clip on how medicine or
science justifies
longevity. When we were all in the
caves, half of everyone born was dead
before the age of 30. Fast forward to
1840.
>> Sure. That number went up to 35.
Half of everyone born was dead by the
time they were 35. So in the tens of
thousands of years between living in
caves,
>> Yeah.
>> and the middle of the 19th century, we
got since then with advances in
medicine. And by the way, everyone back
then was eating organic.
Just saying.
And the water was clear, the air ran
pure, the the game was free range.
Didn't make a damn bit of difference.
Science matters here. Okay. All right.
You can run around and eat all the
organic you want. You'd be dead by the
30 unless some doctor came in and said,
"We can we can increase your life
expectancy using science."
>> Now, let me just dissect that clip a
little bit because there's a bit of
cherrypicking going on. Um, in the 1900s
it is absolutely true that the average
person only lived to 32 years old. Okay,
that's that's pretty low. And then as
time went on, uh, people started living
longer and longer. And the question is,
is it all because of science and
medicine? That's the big question.
Because in most people's mind, science
and medicine is vaccines, antibiotics,
and medications, right? But the only
problem with that, the big spike in
longevity occurred before the broad use
of vaccines and the invention of
antibiotics. The big spike in longevity
actually occurred because of plumbing
and sanitation engineers. They cleaned
up the sewage in the cities. And they
didn't just do it in America. They did
it in France, the UK, different
countries. And they showed similar
spikes in longevity simply because of
this one omitted fact back then over
half of the children died before they
were 15 years old. If we take that data
and we exclude it from this mathematical
formula you would see the longevity
would be much much higher. And that is
because most of these children were
dying of certain infections chalera,
typhoid and dysentery which had a
chronic diarrhea component to it. So
once the plumbing and the sewage
situations was cleaned up, those
conditions literally went away. Now it's
absolutely true that medicine then came
in with antibiotics and it extended the
life longer. There's no doubt. But the
big question is this. If we're talking
about longevity, do we want to manage
disease
or do we want to create health? These
are two completely different things.
When you manage diseases, you're not
correcting causes because you still have
to take the medication. You're dependent
on certain drugs to keep certain things
in check. I mean, right now, we have the
ability to get everyone to live to be
100 years old. We just put them on life
support, right? keep them alive. But
what about the quality? The quality of
someone's life. Personally, I only want
to live as long as I have the quality of
my health. I do not want to end up in a
nursing home with dementia and all sorts
of problems where people have to change
my diapers and dress me and feed me.
That is not living. So, today we're
going to focus in on this right here,
which is very different than this right
here. I'm talking about increasing
your fitness reserve so you have more
capacity for health. The V2 max is
probably one of the best tests that you
can do to determine your fitness reserve
and also to predict how long you're
going to live. So creating health is
different because we're optimizing
function. We're increasing the quality
of your existence.
We're making your metabolism more
flexible and your hormones more
sensitive so they can work. We're making
it so you have tremendous stress
tolerance and you can adapt to life much
much better. Having a very strong
parasympathetic nervous system. So when
you go to sleep, boy, you go into a nice
solid sleep 8 hours and you wake up
feeling refreshed. Creating health also
includes maintaining your muscle mass as
you age because there's a thing called
age- related muscle mass or sarcopenia
that a lot of people end up in where you
lose the muscle mass and a lot of your
health goes down the tube. So sleep
quality is very important. Gut and
microbiome is very important. Making
sure you don't build up visceral fat
that's the fat around the gut is super
important. And then let's compare and
contrast that to uh medical care. uh if
you have a sleeping problem, they will
basically just give you a medication.
Does that increase the quality of sleep?
No, it just allows you to be unconscious
for a longer period of time. I mean,
even blood pressure, are they correcting
blood pressure? No, they're just
lowering it. They're thinning the blood.
They're giving you beta blockers to
block this enzyme so then your blood
pressure goes down. And then let's just
take acid reflux or bloating or
indigestion, right? You take a drug.
Wow. Does that ever fix anything? No. It
just suppresses the symptom until you
have side effects and you need more
medications. So, I'm not disagreeing.
This model does extend your life, but at
the expense of side effects and lower
quality of existence. So, now let's talk
about Japan. Okay, Japan is the country
that has more centinarians, people who
live over a 100red years old than any
other country. Presently, they have
95,119
people that live over a 100red years
old. That's mind-blowing. And so, we're
going to dissect and go down the list
and actually learn from what they're
doing so we can apply it, too. There is
another place where people live longer
than Japan, and that is Hong Kong. Now,
Hong Kong is not as large, so it doesn't
have as many centinarians, but people in
Hong Kong live a very long time. And I
have some very interesting information
that's very counterintuitive to why you
might think people are living longer.
What's so unique about Japan? The first
thing that stands out is their school
system. They have a very unique food and
nutrition educational program that is
mandated by a law. These kids are
educated by dieticians that are not
nearly as influenced by the junk food
industry like they are in America. So,
they're actually teaching these kids a
tremendous amount of great information
on food and nutrition early on that is
going to help them in the long run.
Could you imagine if you ate healthy as
a child? Like, I wish I ate healthy as a
child. I ate pure junk. I mean, in
America, kids do get some education, but
it's only like eight hours for the
entire year. And then the big elephant
in the room question is what is the
quality of that health and food
information since it comes from
dieticians that are severely influenced
by the junk food industry which is a
known fact. If you have any doubts of
that I will put a link down below so you
can learn more about that. So the
question is what do these kids eat? They
do have rice. In America, we are fed
more wheat and other grains in a highly
refined way, industrial starches. But in
Japan, that rice is less refined. It's
not genetically modified. So, it doesn't
have glyphosate. Now, it is true that
the wheat in America is also not
genetically modified, but they still
spray it with glyphosate, which is an
herbicide, to dry it out. In Japan,
these kids are taught that fish in meat
is healthy. Okay? They also do soy, but
not like the soy products they have in
America where it's like soy protein
isolates. In Japan, they consume
fermented soy products, which is way,
way different. In Japan, these children
consume soup and vegetables and seaweed,
which is loaded with iodine. But in that
seaweed, you don't just have iodine. You
have a blend of all of the trace
minerals. You know, the average person
in Japan consumes
nine times the amount of iodine as
people in America. Iodine also is very
anti-estrogenic.
So, it helps prevent the excess amounts
of estrogen. One interesting thing about
the Japanese is they do consume more
salt than America, but they also consume
more potassium. And if you really look
at the problem with just having table
salt, it's simply because you're not
consuming it with the other mineral to
help balance it out. People that are
salt sensitive really are potassium
deficient. If you consume enough
potassium with your sodium, you're not
going to have issues with the blood
pressure or increasing your risk of
stroke because there's something in your
body called the sodium potassium pump
that feeds all the cells what they need
to create the battery inside the cell.
People in Japan also consume a lot of
fermented soy, one of the best sources
of vitamin K2. Not only helps fortify
your bone and prevent bone loss,
like in preventing osteoporosis or
osteopenia, keeps the calcium from
building up in the arteries. Now, the
thing that's even more mind-blowing than
that is in the microbiome of the
Japanese, they have a certain microbe
that is actually an ocean microbe. That
microbe is able to digest certain things
that Americans can't digest. But here's
the thing. When you're consuming a wide
range of foods in your diet, especially
uh the fermented foods, you are going to
be able to build up certain microbes
that are going to greatly help you.
They're going to protect you. They have
specialized jobs to do all sorts of
things from making certain anti-stress
hormones like oxytocin, making
neurotransmitters over here. Other
microbes have this special job of
building up this mucous membrane for
your colon to protect you against leaky
gut. Other microbes make vitamins and
minerals. Other microbes are defending
you against attack. They're like become
part of your immune system. So, it's
really important to have a diverse
amount of foods, but especially a
diverse amount of fermented foods. When
you go to the grocery store in America,
a lot of the vegetables are grown
hydroponically in liquid without soil.
So, the question is, how you going to
get the same microbes in water versus
soil? You can't. When you consume
vegetables from actual soil that has
microbes, a lot of those microbes go
into the roots into that plant and that
plant becomes a probiotic. So plants and
salad and vegetables grown
hydroponically don't really act like the
probiotic that the vegetables that come
out of your garden act like. So if you
can't get access to that, let's say you
don't have a farmers market around or
you don't have a garden, then you need
to consume on a regular basis fermented
foods, okay? I like sauerkraut. Make
sure it's raw. Kimchi is a good one.
Fermented pickles is a good one. Raw
fermented cheese, kefir,
yogurt, and even a probiotic that you
can grow. It's called elderai, the game
changer if you want to improve your
health. I'll put that link down below.
But we can learn from the Japanese
fermented foods are super important.
They do a lot of green tea. The
phytonutrients in green tea are
literally at the top of the list of what
they do for your health. Preventing
cancer as an anti-inflammatory, help you
get rid of toxins in your liver. So
adding more green tea to a part of your
meals would be important. Another
principle that I found out about the
Japanese is they basically eat until
they're about 80% full. I know myself
for years, I didn't eat till I was 80%
full. I would eat until I was stuffed.
And I now would just keep eating. Here
we have a cell. Okay? And inside this
cell, we have these little energy
factories that basically process all the
food that you eat. So you eat this food,
it gets broken down, and then all this
fuel comes in to this little engine
motor thing right here. It's like a
power plant. When you force too much
fuel into this power plant, you create
damage and problems. Okay? And that's
usually how people get in a lot of
trouble of overeating. When you're
cramming so many lowquality calories
into this motor, you're literally
depleting it of nutrients. You're
damaging the mitochondria and you're
setting yourself up for all sorts of
metabolic problems down the road. You
might be very active in exercise and be
able to burn off this fuel and that's
great so you can handle more calories,
but if you're not as active, you should
probably just eat enough food and not to
overdo it. Now, I already talked about
the salt uh balance it out with
potassium foods. The foods that are
highest in potassium, avocados, leafy
greens. Now, another unique thing about
Japan uh is if we just look at steps,
okay, we're talking about just walking.
The average person has over 6,000 steps,
okay, in Japan, whereas in America it's
only 4,000. So, they have literally
2,000 more steps than we do every single
day. I would recommend getting into
7,000
8,000 because that's when things really
start changing. You may also have heard
uh different places called the blue
zones, right? And they you might have
heard some propaganda about, oh, blue
zones, they're they're all vegetarian,
they don't eat meat. That actually is
not true about Japan and other
countries. They actually eat more meat
than fish nowadays. So they consume an
adequate amount of meat. Now I want to
flip right to Hong Kong for a second.
They consume literally the most meat of
any other place. An average person
consumes 323.9
lbs of meat every single year. And the
question is what type of meat? They eat
a massive amount of pork and a massive
amount of beef. the two foods that you
were told to avoid. And then the whole
point about this topic is that this
comes down to what I've been saying for
a very long time. Find out what everyone
is agreed on and everyone's telling you
and go in the opposite direction.
Apparently, it's not affecting people in
Hong Kong. There's very few people that
smoke in Hong Kong and also they do
consume a lot of seafood and they do a
lot of walking. There's a lot of steps.
So, we have that as well. Now, let's get
into the 18 practical things that you
can do to extend your life. Number one,
insulin resistance. The reason that
we're talking about insulin resistance
is because this is a root cause behind
so many chronic diseases from a fatty
liver to diabetes type 2 to obesity.
Anything you can do to reduce this is
going to be a very smart thing to live a
long and healthy life. I really need to
bring up the best way to test
insulin resistance because you could
check your blood sugar, right? And your
blood sugar can be normal for literally
15 to 20 years despite how much sugar
you eat. And that is because insulin is
coming in there like crazy and sucking
out all of the sugar out of your
bloodstream, making it normal. Do the
doctors ever check insulin? No. they're
focused on the blood sugar, so they're
going to miss it. So then there's
another test. It's called A1C. What is
A1C? That basically measures the average
blood sugar for 3 months. Okay? So it's
just a test to look at your uh red blood
cells to see how much sugar is connected
to it. When you have the early stages of
insulin resistance, your A1C could be
normal for 10 to 15 years. What you have
to do is check your fasting insulin.
It's a much better indicator of what's
really going on. Unfortunately, the
doctors don't check that. And I would
recommend keeping it under seven or
maybe under five. And I know there's a
lot of confusion on what normal is
because there's really no agreed amount
of what normal is on insulin. Uh and I
find that very interesting. I would
recommend getting it under seven or
under five. Okay. Mine is a two, my
fasting insulin. But this is a really
important test. How do you keep it low?
By going low carb. Keep the sugar and
hidden starches out. So in other words,
right here, six, avoid sugar. Okay,
hidden sugar as well. Hidden sugar is in
the starch, industrial starch. That's
like the refined breads, pasta, cereal,
crackers, biscuits, waffles, pancakes.
All of that starch is hidden sugar. And
when insulin goes high, that's when
you're going to start having all sorts
of health problems to the point where
now the insulin is not going into the
cell and now the cell doesn't get fuel
and everything starts to go downhill.
Number two, autophagy. Autophagy is your
body's way of fixing damaged protein and
cellular parts. What causes people not
to live long is damaged cells and
mitochondria and other cells. And so if
you had a cleaning mechanism that can
keep those cells uh cleaned up and
renewed, you would live a lot longer.
And how do you do that? With regular
intermittent fasting and periodic
prolonged fasting. I have a million
videos on this. I'll put some down
below. But you should do at least 48 or
72-hour fasts. Huge. And I just did a
video on a fiveday fast. You can do that
periodically, too. But that's one way to
extend your life in a major way. Number
three, V2 max is a test that you can
get. You have to go to a certain clinic
to get it, but it's the ultimate test in
fitness reserve. It's one of those
markers that will tell how in shape you
are. All this training is going to build
up and increase your ability to use
oxygen. And that oxygen keeps the body
from getting inflamed. It keeps your
fitness level in a surplus where you
have this extra reserve buffer to
protect you. It will also help your
sleep. It keeps your cortisol down. Very
important to keep this very high. Number
four, mitochondria. Boy, a lot of
problems with a shortened lifespan uh
come from a problem with this
mitochondria. So, you have a couple
factors, couple variables here. You have
the fuel coming into the mitochondria.
Okay, the mitochondria is the energy
factory. So that has to be quality fuel.
And then we have all the biochemical
reactions that take that food, extract
different things and turn that into
energy. It's called ATP. At the end of
this whole assembly line, every single
biochemical reaction that occurs needs
vitamins and minerals and trace
minerals. This is why we need nutrition.
B1, B2, B3, B5, co-enzyme Q10. the trace
minerals, manganese, zinc, iodine,
copper, and magnesium. Okay, these are
so vitally important for that
mitochondria to function. So, if you
don't have these, the mitochondria is
not going to work well. If you have too
much junk food, the mitochondria is not
going to work. So, it could be a couple
reasons why the mitochondria doesn't
function right. And then on top of that,
if you're consuming seed oil, that
really can mess up the function of the
mitochondria. So you want to avoid
things like soy oil, corn oil, canola
oil. There's actually a test that could
be done to look at this biochemical
factory in a pathway. It's called a
metabolomic test. The metabolomic test
looks deep in the biochemistry and it
looks at the fuel coming in there. Where
is the bottleneck in this factory? At
what point is it building up and not
getting through? Is it because you're
not getting a certain nutrient or are
you not getting enough of the right
fuel? Out of all the things that you see
that's lacking in the diet, in the
metabolomic tests to allow this
biochemistry to work, what would that
be? High quality amino acids, animal
meat. People need to consume more of
that to allow this biochemistry to work
correctly. Then that explains the
carnivore diet. It explains why people
do so much better when they start
increasing their animal proteins. Okay,
so I already talked about how important
fasting is. You're going to live longer
with fasting because your body is going
to adapt and become stronger. It's hard
to reach a high level of health unless
you stress your body out intermittently,
but you have to let it recover as well.
And since we're on the topic of this
right here, um let's talk about heat.
adding heat, whether it's a a hot
shower, a sauna, a jacuzzi. Some of the
benefits from this heat therapy are
similar to exercising. So, that's pretty
cool that you could just go in the
jacuzzi and get a lot of the benefits
from exercising, but you're just laying
there in this jacuzzi. I think that's
pretty interesting. Also have cold
therapy. Think about what the body has
to do to counter this cold bath or a
cold shower. It has to maintain a
certain temperature. It's turning on all
sorts of genes to improve survival. And
I'm not talking about trying to shock
your body too long. It just, you know, a
very quick immersion into cold and then
coming out and then even going in the
heat is is therapeutic. But of course,
you have to make sure that the heart is
strong enough to handle that. Even
phytonutrients are a little bit of a
hormetic stress to cause an adaptation
to make you get stronger. I already
mentioned about exercise but there's
also hypoxia training and you can think
of this as high altitude training. They
are basically training with low amounts
of oxygen and it forces the body to
develop new uh capillaries and bigger
red blood cells. You can get a mask to
just restrict air. I'm doing this right
now. I think it's awesome. I think it'll
be the wave of the future. But it's just
a way to enhance the benefit of
exercise.
We've already talked about intermittent
fasting, but what about sun? Yeah, sun.
Getting UV radiation is going to create
this little stress where our body's
going to adapt. Fermented foods. So,
you're exposing yourself to microbes.
So, the body is then going to adapt and
actually have more diverse microbes. If
you're raising a child in a super clean,
sterile environment, their immune system
does not develop. Our immune system gets
stronger when we get an infection and we
allow our bodies to overcome the
infection. Now, let's go back to number
nine. Vitamin D. Our genes were designed
to develop to uh get a lot of sun and
now we don't. We stay inside. So, we
need more sun and we need more vitamin
D. And if you really want to protect
yourself and bulletproof yourself and
live longer,
you want a vitamin D level of at least
60 nanogs per milliliter or 80. Okay? 60
to 80. Now, personally, I have mine over
100, but that's because I have a lot of
old injuries and arthritis, and my body
does better if I have just a little more
vitamin D. But, of course, I'm checking
the calcium in my blood. I'm checking
other factors. But if you could just
keep it 60 to 80, you're going to be in
really good shape. Social connections,
super important for longevity.
Have a lot of groups that you're
involved with. When you isolate someone,
they get lonely. But you can be by
yourself and not be lonely. But I'm
talking about the feeling of loneliness.
Uh not good for longevity. This is why
when someone loses a loved one, uh they
have what's called a broken heart
syndrome is so stressful. Their chance
for a heart attack goes up to like
2,000% I think the first week. So it's
very stressful. Unfortunately, everyone
has to go through that. So you want to
have enough fitness to push through that
and survive that because of this thing
this word called hormesis. What does
that mean? That is putting a short
little stress in the body to cause the
body to adapt and become stronger. This
is why exercise a stress breaks things
down and the body adapts and gets
stronger. Um I already mentioned uh when
you eat if you cannot stuff yourself
that would be a good idea. just try to
be like 80% full and then just stop.
That way we're allowing the fuel to come
in to be usable with all the co-actors
and nutrients and everything's working
like a machine and we're not going to
damage it. All right, number 13 is
postmeal walk. It's like free metformin.
Metformin is a medication for diabetes
and it helps you lower blood sugar. So
it's like a free metformin without side
effects. All right, we already talked a
little bit about fermented foods. Super
important to eat for your microbes. A
little dark chocolate without sugar is
very healthy for the microbes. I consume
that every lunchtime. Sometimes I'll do
it in the morning in my coffee. Now,
let's get to number 15. Sleep. If you're
not sleeping, you're not going to live a
long time. For many years, I would get
up at 4:00 in the morning and think that
was a good thing. But I always needed a
nap and it caught up to me. Now I have
to get at least seven, seven and a half.
I'm trying to get eight hours of sleep.
I'm going to show you how to do it. It's
kind of like that lifestyle change that
just allows everything to work so much
better. Your energy, your mood,
magnesium before bed, an hour before
bed, and magnesium glycinate is pretty
cool because it allows the muscles to
feel calm. It allows the cortisol to
come down. Also will reduce your
temperature which is interesting. So
right before you go to sleep your body
core temperature actually gets a little
cooler. So instead of 98.6 it comes down
by one or two points. That coolness
allows you to go into asleep faster and
also it improves the delta wave sleep
where a lot of the important repair and
the brain detoxification
processes occur. And temperature is a
very important factor. This is why you
want to set the temperature at like
between 62 to 68 degrees. I personally
just need like a little sheet and I keep
my room really cold and I sleep so much
better than with a blanket. Now, if your
feet are cold, then wear socks, but just
try to keep your body just a little bit
cooler to the point where it should help
you sleep. The other thing is your
light. We have not evolved to the
current environment that we live in with
all the lights. In the morning, we get
up and we go to our computers and we're
in blue light. If you're like me, you
spend a lot of time on the computer.
That really messes up the circadian
clock. So, you need to reset it. One
really easy way to do that is in the
early morning, go outside
and don't look at the sun, but allow
some of the sunlight to go in your eyes
for 20 minutes. Okay? And you're getting
this blue spectrum. It's at I think the
exact frequency that you need is 480
that goes into your eyes and it helps to
wake you up and then at night when it
gets dark if you are on your computer or
watching TV you should wear blue
blockers and that way you'll start to
restrict that blue light. The other
thing is the stimulants. Too much coffee
through the day. Too much chocolate has
another stimulant through the day. What
it actually does is it takes this
molecule called adenosine and in the
receptor part it kind of blocks it but
over time if you do a lot of caffeine
like I did that receptor doesn't work
anymore. So now at night we can't go to
bed at night and because we're like
there's no sleep pressure to push us
into that deep sleep and then in the
morning it's hard to wake up even with
caffeine because that receptor now is
not working. I'm telling you, out of all
these things, if you fix the sleep,
you're going to live a lot longer. Now,
I want to talk about FOX3 for a second
because this is the gene, longevity gene
that people in Japan, in certain parts
of the world, have it expressed more
than others. Okay? So, there is a
genetic point, but the good news is you
can do some things to express that gene
and activate it. Intermittent fasting,
endurance exercise, highintensity
interval training, resistance training,
a sauna, cold bath. This is the green
tea phytonutrient, curcumin from
turmeric, sulfurophane from broccoli
sprouts, NAD, it's a supplement, but I
recommend just taking the complete B
vitamins because really to build this
one up, you need B3. And you get vitamin
B3 from red meat and and liver and organ
meats and other things. uh having uh
less visceral fat is going to be helpful
to increase this running your body in
ketones that's the low carb and having
more sleep. So basically if you follow
all these things you'll enhance this
gene and live longer. Number 17
maintaining muscle mass. As someone gets
older they develop a condition called
sarcopenia where they're losing muscle
mass. So, it's so important to maintain
resistance training and enough uh red
meat protein or other uh animal protein
as you get older to keep the muscle mass
high. But the problem is if your
testosterone
dips down, it's very difficult to grow
muscle. So, you want to maintain muscle
mass and maintain testosterone.
Testosterone is like this basic hormone
that can turn into other hormones. So,
it's super important. Uh so, if a woman
was considering doing estrogen therapy,
um she should probably do testosterone
therapy and then that way she can make
her own estrogen as needed. So,
maintaining muscle mass through
exercising, having sufficient protein
and all the co-actors,
very important. A lot of those co-actors
are going to be in muscle, like muscle
protein when you eat red meat. So,
that's going to help you. And also,
magnesium is going to help with this.
And then testosterone. I've done an
entire video on this. Uh, intense
exercise, zinc, oysters are the best
food for zinc and red meat, having
enough sleep, and having enough
cholesterol. And I'm also going to
assume that people that are more
interested in this video uh are probably
a little older and they're going to need
some more information about how to
maintain higher levels of testosterone.
So, I put a video right here for you to
watch right now. Check it out. It's
right there.
