What would actually happen if you
consume only meat for 30 days? I think
the best way to figure this out is to go
to the experts.
This is my big fear for these people. If
you do it for a month and you lose 20
lbs and you feel better, great. But 20
years from now, your risk of heart
disease and cancer and other medical
problems are going to be very
significant. It's very difficult, if not
impossible, to debunk the carnivore diet
or eating meat short term because people
lose a lot of weight. This is what they
do. This is just like a playbook that
even the tobacco industry used. And that
is to seed doubt or uncertainty. Yes, it
works in the short term, but we don't
know long term it might be very
dangerous. If you are a carnivore lover
and you really love the carnivore,
please organize a randomized control
trial. Then please show us somehow that
a it's going to help in the short term,
but b more importantly the long term. A
yearong investigation of two people in
Belleview Medical Hospital who are
eating an exclusive carnivore diet. And
during that period of time, these people
experienced no negative effects, no
dangerous changes in blood pressure,
kidney function. They only experienced
good things, a little bit of weight
loss, and came out of the study saying
that they felt better than when they
started.
Has there been anything since 1930 with
more than two people
discouraging people from even trying it?
While we spend $4.7 trillion on our
healthcare, and what do we have to show
for it? A lot of chronic disease. We've
tested this balanced diet for decades.
And on the flip side, we had the longest
trial ever in history. It's called
evolution. Hunter gatherers ate a lot of
meat for a very long time and we
survived. In fact, we thrived. What's
new in our diet is Pop-Tarts, it's the
seed oils. When someone starts to eat
just meat, okay, nothing else. The first
thing that's going to happen is they're
going to lose a lot of excess fluid. And
some people say that's a bad thing if
you're losing too much fluid. But you
have to realize that if you're on a high
carb diet, you're carrying around a
tremendous amount of extra fluid. And so
getting rid of that is actually a
healthy thing. Because we drop our
carbohydrates down to zero, we enter
into ketosis. We start losing weight
like we've never lost weight before.
That's just the tip of the iceberg.
There's something actually even bigger
that happens. You heal your gut. Vast
majority of people have damage with
their gut. When you start consuming meat
only, you start healing the gut from
many different angles. Bile salts go
through our small intestine to clean up
any excess bacteria that we don't need.
And if we don't have that bile to keep
that in check, we end up getting too
much bacteria in the wrong part of the
digestive system. And then you start
getting more bloating. With an allmeat
diet or the carnivore diet, that clears
up really fast. So, your digestive
system is going to thank you. When
someone says that you have to heal the
gut with a plant or even fiber, they
just do not know what they're talking
about. Adding more fiber to a gut that's
already inflamed, it's like putting
gasoline on a fire, it's just going to
make things worse. You don't have these
amino acids in any of the plant foods.
They're in animal foods. Also, you're
eliminating another huge food group,
grains. Most of the sugar that we eat is
made from grains. That refined starch
will spike your blood sugar way, way
higher than actual sugar. Well, even
though it's not called a sugar, they
actually can label it a complex
carbohydrate. Take a look at leaky gut.
The question is, what causes that?
Because that seems to be at the root of
so many problems, especially autoimmune
disease. Then you have a lot of
chemicals in these whole grains. Most
grains are genetically modified, which
means they have traces of this right
here, Roundup Ready. You may be getting
traces of this in your grains, which is
also classified and patented as an
antibiotic. Then when you start to
consume salad or different types of
vegetables, that then irritates you.
Why? because you have gut inflammation
already and you can't handle all this
extra fiber and plant chemicals that can
irritate the gut. When you start
eliminating sugar and refined grains,
you stop feeding these pathogens in our
gut. So now if you had an overgrowth of
fungus or yeast or candida, you just
starve it to death. Let's talk about
insulin resistance just for a moment.
It's a huge problem. It comes from sugar
and starches primarily. If you have any
disease that's related to insulin
resistance, which a lot of people do,
those diseases tend to go away, try this
out and see if it works for you. I
remember one time I had severe
constipation and I started to consume
more meat and I was shocked to find out
how that resolved my constipation. I
thought I needed more fiber to handle my
constipation. Absolutely not true. As
you heal the gut and you have less
inflammation, you are able to now
finally absorb more vitamin D. Vitamin D
mainly gets absorbed in the small
intestine. And if you have inflammation,
that shuts it right down. You're going
to need to take higher amounts of it
over a period of time because it's the
vitamin D that really corrects this
imbalance within your immune system.
Because you heal your gut, you instantly
heal your brain. I'm talking about any
type of lowered emotional symptom,
whether it's anxiety, depression, all
those things start to improve when you
start to eliminate the refined grains
and sugar and you start eating more
meat. We're mimicking millions of years
of evolution of what we ate back in the
day. We make it out to be some
ridiculously dangerous thing that oh my
gosh, we don't know what's going to
happen long term. We have the argument,
well, the meat diet is just too
unsustainable. Maybe it is because you
want carbohydrates and gaining weight
and trying to get rid of all these
metabolic problems with medication
instead of food. Couple last points
about an all meat diet. Eat the whole
animal, which includes bone broth and
the skin and the organ meats. The other
thing I would recommend is fish,
shellfish, eggs. I hope you now know
that if you were to consume meat long
term, not only would it not be harmful
to you, it can be extremely healthy for
you. And for more information on that,
watch this video right here.
