Hi guys. We're back again in this video. We're gonna talk about two things to
focus on to rid diabetes type 2, okay? Out of all the things that you can do, there
are two things that are the most important. The first question is, what is
diabetes type 2? It's a problem with insulin. It's actually too much insulin.
Type 1 is not enough insulin, but type 2 is too much insulin. So what is insulin?
Insulin is a carbohydrate hormone. So it's a hormone that regulates carbs. So
the two big things and there's a lot of things that can trigger insulin. The two
big things are number one, consuming sugar AND frequent eating. So if we take
a look at sugar and frequent eating. So which one of these do you think is more
important to focus on, okay? It's this one right here. Frequent eating. So if you, if
you actually just make this one change and you eat less frequent and let's say
you do two meals a day. Some people even do one meal a day or even three meals a
day, no snacking you will see more change than if you cut off the sugar and kept
eating all day long, okay? So this is the most important thing
right here to focus on. This is the second most important thing to focus on.
Now if you do these in combination, it is very, very powerful. But the problem is
that people, in their mind, they don't realize what sugar is. They think, oh
just added sugar. No, I'm talking about all the foods that turn into sugar very
fast. Like the breads, the pasta, cereal, the crackers, the biscuits, the waffles,
the pancakes, the muffins. It's hard to go anywhere without running into sugar. I
mean I was at the grocery store the other day and I saw this wall of
Gatorade, you know. It's all sugar water, sports drinks. It's everywhere. Juice,
alcohol, there's a lot of hidden carbs and social events, birthday parties. I
mean it's in popcorn, and chips, and potatoes. It's everywhere. So you really
have to just be aware of what sugar is or what a high-glycemic food is and
start to cut that down to the point where you keep it really, really low. And
then frequent eating, that's another challenge too, because all you're doing
is you're spiking insulin and then what's happening, the insulin is bringing
the sugars down now you're going to be hungry again.
So you want to gradually phase into this. Now I created a real simple, easy, fast
mini-course down below. You could click that and just learn how to do this. Where
I combined everything at once. So you'll see huge changes just by tweaking these
two things right here. Alright? So if you focus on that, that's going to be
your greatest tool to overcome diabetes. Thanks for watching.
Hey, thank you so much for watching. Keep spreading the word and share this video.
