Hey, Dr. Berg here.
I'm going to talk about insulin resistance.
I'm going to make it really, really simple, so just track with me.
Here's what happens.
Your pancreas, which is located in the left, lower quadrant, right by your rib cage, makes
a hormone called insulin and insulin responds to sugar.
In other words it's triggered by a sugar or anything that turns into sugar, so anything
sweet and anything, like even refined grains can trigger insulin, and it kicks in there
and it goes into your cells.
Then, what it does is it removes the sugar from your blood, so that's the purpose is
to lower the sugar.
Normally, in our blood, we need about 100 milligrams per deciliter, and basically what
that means is you can just take and focus on the 100, so when you get your sugar test
and your blood should be like a 100.
The goal is to make it 100.
Anything higher is bad.
Anything lower is bad.
We need a 100.
When it's at 100, you're at your mental best.
You're feeling the best but when it goes high, you get what's called diabetes, so diabetes
is the high sugar situation.
When the blood sugars go low, that's hypo-sugar or hypoglycemia, okay.
That's kind of a pre-diabetes state.
When I was twelve, I had hypoglycemia.
I remember skipping a meal and feeling really dizzy and irritable and cranky, playing outside
and I don't know what it was but, of course, I was living on pure sugar.
I would raid the cupboards and eat pure sugar all the time.
That's really what causes hypoglycemia because what happens is you eat all this sugar and
we get this hyper reactive, high insulin state, which is going to like take a sledge hammer
and push that sugar right down, so we're going to have low sugar, irritable, cranky, craving,
dizzy, all those things.
Now what happens over a period of time, when you're hypoglycemic over a period of time,
your body doesn't like that so it's going to say, "Stop," so it's going to try to protect
itself and it's going to turn off the receptor, the thing that receives, so it's going to
ignore that insulin response, so it's not going to receive it anymore.
Someone's talking but no one's listening, and that's called a down grade or a blocked
receptor, so it doesn't receive as much as it did before, and that's what insulin resistance
is because it's your body, your cells are resistant.
It's inhibiting this absorption because it's saying, "Dude, why do you keep eating sugar.
Would you please stop?"
What happens when this happens is it forces insulin to go higher because it's compensating,
it's on a feedback loop here, so insulin resistance forces your body to make make more insulin
to create the same effect because without this insulin, this sugar stays high and your
body does not like that, so it has to lower it somehow, so it's just going to wear the
pancreas out.
Diabetes is really a situation where you have high sugar and it won't come down to 100.
We already passed the hypoglycemic thing.
We're, type II diabetes is insulin resistance and because of the, you've been eating too
much sugar.
When this becomes like that, your body protects you and several things happen as a consequence,
in addition to jacking up more insulin.
Number two, you're going to be hungry.
Why?
Because insulin has a few other purposes.
It not only lowers the sugar in your blood but it also helps you absorb the nutrition
in your cells, so the nutrients, fatty acids, proteins, vitamins, so without insulin you
can't get the nutrition in your cells, so guess what you're going ... You're going to
be hungry all the time.
You're not going to be satisfied.
You eat but it doesn't really go in, so you have this fat person that's starving to death.
You can't get healthy like that, and then you're also going to crave carbs like crazy.
Just so you know, if you're craving carbs or sweets, it is literally impossible to burn
fat, so every time that you're craving, you're not burning any fat.
Don't worry.
I'll show you how to fix that.
We've got cravings, hunger and decreased nutrition, and that's why, over a period of time, diabetics
end up with all sorts of health problems.
They go blind.
They get their feet start getting, destructive nerves, so it's called peripheral neuropathy
and they get tingly in the feet and the hands, and they just kind of go down hill.
Then also, this condition is going to prevent the storage of sugar.
It's called glycogen, which basically is a stored sugar in your liver and your muscles,
so we need that to live off of when we're sleeping, between meals, and so if we can't
store the sugar as much anymore, what happens is we end up having all sorts of problems
with storing more fat, if we're not storing sugar we have to store more fat so you're
going to keep getting fatter and fatter and fatter.
Also, in between the meals, because you can't have a storage of sugar, you're going to have
too many highs and too many lows, so it's going to come up and down too much.
It's the storage of that sugar that maintains a nice level sugar, and especially noted with
you get up in the morning, after not eating for eight hours.
There's a couple things I want to cover.
Let's go back to this sugar.
We need 100 milligrams per deciliter.
That would equal about five grams of sugar.
That's like a heaping teaspoon of sugar in your entire body, on an average person, they
only need a teaspoon of sugar but not consuming sugar, but from the food that converts to
the sugar, even protein and fat can convert to sugar, so we need about one teaspoon of
sugar.
We don't need more than that.
Check this out.
An eight ounce, typical can of soda, an eight ounce typical glass of orange juice, is about
thirty-nine teaspoons of sugar.
Okay, so now we went from five to thirty-nine.
That's a tremendous stress on the pancreas.
Oh my gosh.
What you're doing is you're just wearing the thing out.
It's creating whiplash of your pancreas, and because the pancreas has two parts, one is
a hormone part and the other is an enzyme part, called the exocrine gland, you're going
to start having all sorts of digestive problems, including possible pancreatitis, inflammation
of the pancreas.
Tension in your upper digestive system, bloating for sure, maybe even pain that goes around
in your back, undigested proteins.
You can't digest protein anymore.
All sorts of bowel problems, I mean you name it.
It creates a lot of problems.
Now, the body is trying to protect itself from too much insulin so it's going to block
the resistance, the receptor, create more resistance in there, and then the sugar's
going to go high, so apparently the body is going to protect the cell and not necessarily
the blood.
That's why the blood starts filling up with sugar and that's where you get all this extra
fat and triglycerides and cholesterol.
In other words, triglycerides are blood fats, and because the cell can't absorb nutrition
anymore or protein or fat, it's going to dump around the rest of the body as, in the blood
as blood fats, out of post tissue and cholesterol.
Those are the effects of this situation.
We've got this hypoglycemia thing, which is high sugar, and then the receptor becomes
resistant so it doesn't absorb it anymore.
That's type II diabetes, that creates all sorts of problems, and then down the road
you end up with diabetes type I and in type I the pancreas is already asleep.
It can't produce this anymore, so now you have to be injected because the sugars are
going higher and higher and higher and your insulin can't keep up to lower them.
Yes, there are other causes of diabetes type I, auto-immune, but the question is what causes
auto-immune, that's another video.
The point is that type I diabetes is the worst situation because now you completely ran out
of this whole situation and now you have to be injected or take insulin.
What do we do about this?
What can be done?
Well, there's a couple things you can do.
Number one, we need to lower insulin.
We need to lower insulin.
That has to be a primary goal.
Doctors do not emphasize this enough.
What they do is they give you insulin.
They don't put enough attention on the diet.
They don't realize that in a diabetic situation, in a hypoglycemic situation, if the person's
craving, they should not be consuming any sugars, zero.
Don't give the person recommendations like everything in moderation.
That would be very bad, zero sugars.
They can do substitute sugars like Zilotol, Stevia but they can't afford to continue to
eat more sugar or juice, so number one we avoid things that trigger insulin, and then
we also can increase other things too, primarily potassium.
Why?
Because potassium will help lower insulin, help you store sugar and you want to get it
from the food, so you would need to consume at least seven to ten cups of vegetable or
the Cal Shake I recommend because it has all the potassium in it, you can make it.
I show you how to, on my website, how to make that.
Seven to ten cup of vegetable to get your potassium that will also really help cravings
because it's going to lower insulin.
Number two, you want to increase vitamin B1 but really, the other B complex is vitamins
too but I recommend getting this, not from a pill, but from nutritional yeast.
Why?
Because nutritional yeast is a great form of natural B vitamins that will greatly assist
in lowering insulin.
Why?
Because when you consume all this sugar, you're actually dumping all your B vitamins and your
potassium out through the urine, up to fifteen times more than if you didn't have this problem,
so you're losing all this.
Don't worry.
Consuming nutritional yeast won't give you a yeast infection.
All right.
The last thing I want to recommend would be protein.
Because protein is a nutrient and it's blocked from the cell, you're probably going to be
deficient in protein so you need to have protein especially for breakfast, okay.
That's very important because if you don't, then at the end of the day your blood sugars
are going to be so far off that you're going to need, the need for insulin and medication
is going to be much, much greater.
I hope I helped you understand this and one last point.
Insulin stops fat burning, in the presence of insulin you will not burn fat, so the goal
is to lower insulin and to a normal level.
I hope this helped.
See you in the next video.
