So let's talk about the nine most commonly made mistakes
nearly everyone makes doing keto, okay? Number one: doing it without intermittent
fasting. Now the whole purpose of keto is to fix insulin, to actually lower insulin,
to fix insulin resistance. And why not add intermittent fasting? Because
every time you eat, you raise insulin. So if you just do ketosis without
intermittent fasting, you may not lose weight especially, if you're eating like
six meals a day. So it's number one. Number two: eating when you're not hungry.
So it's like, if you're not hungry and you eat, what's going to happen is you're
going to spike insulin again. So here you were, you're sleeping all night, you're
burning fat, you're not hungry in the morning, yet you eat. Well, your body was
in fat-burning all night long. So now it's going to not be in fat-burning because
you just ate. So I would not eat unless you're hungry, alright? Number three:
eating too much protein. So when you consume too much protein, you can
stimulate insulin as well. So in your mind sometimes, if you're working out, you
think, "Oh, I need more protein." But in reality, all you need is between three to
six ounces per meal. It's much better to consume more vegetables, a little more
fat than excessive amounts of protein, okay? The only exception is if you're
let's say, 18-years-old and your metabolism is super-high. You can get
away with a little bit more. Okay, number four: omitting the vegetables. So in this
situation, if you don't consume enough vegetables, you're not going to get the
potassium you need to form the protein on your body parts. You're not going to
get the potassium to help regulate the heart, the muscles, because it's a main
electrolyte. You need a tremendous amount of potassium and that comes from
vegetables. Seven to ten cups of vegetables every single day. You're going to
have to bite the bullet and do that. And also, without vegetables, you can't flush
all the fat coming out through the liver. Number five: focusing too much on the
weight or the keto sticks. So a lot of times when you weigh yourself, you're
like, "Wow, I'm not losing much weight." But your stomach is shrinking. Realize that
you're ,when you're doing this, you are actually converting more of your energy
to making muscle and you're losing fat but you're
actually building up more muscle. And muscle weighs a little bit more, so it
might not show up on the scale. So don't sweat it. Go by your waist to see if your
waist is shrinking. And so, the same thing with the keto sticks. If you're not in
ketosis, it doesn't mean anything because you could be utilizing ketones. Ketones
are the byproduct of fat burning, okay? So if you're very efficient and you're
burning up all this fat, it's not going to show up in the urine. Number seven: too
much or too little fat. So this is the variable that you need to really pay
attention to because if you have too much, it could overload the gallbladder
and the liver and cause right shoulder pain. If you don't have enough, you might
not be able to make it from one meal to the next, so you're gonna be hungry but
as you do this, and your system is more efficient, and you're burning more of
your fat, you'll need less dietary fat. Okay, number eight: allowing too many
carbohydrates, okay? Now if you really have a person to a food log and they
start looking at the hidden carbs, you're going to find that it's like exceeding that
50-gram limit per day. I like to keep my carbs below 30 grams every single day.
However, you don't have to worry about calculating the vegetables because we
want you to consume a lot of vegetables, okay? Number nine: worrying about the
cholesterol. And this is a big one because think about it, here you are
releasing fat from the fat cells. What does that mean? That means you're
releasing triglycerides and cholesterol. So when you do that, what do you think is
going to happen in your blood? It's going to go up, so I put a link down below so you
can get the full understanding of what that means. But it's not going to be a
problem, alright? Thanks for watching.
Hey, thank you so much for watching. Keep spreading the word and share this video.
