We are excited to bring you to the 2020 Healthy Keto Summit this August 29th and
30th, held at the beautiful Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center in
National Harbor Maryland. Get ready to take your knowledge of Keto and Fasting
to a whole new level, learn from top experts vital information on the
ketogenic diet as well as intermittent fasting. Here's a short summary of the
speakers and topics this year, author and YouTube educator Dr. Eric Berg will be
presenting some fascinating information on nutritional deficiencies when doing
both keto and intermittent fasting. Dr. Jeff Gerber is also coming, he is a Board
Certified family physician and known as Denver's diet doctor, he will be teaching
you about the anti-aging effects of the ketogenic diet and much more. Dr. Gerber
also puts on one of the largest low-carb keto conventions each year in Denver
Colorado. Author, researcher Dr. Eric Westman will be speaking he is the
director of Duke lifestyle medicine clinic and brings incredible practical
Keto knowledge from working one-on-one with tens of thousands of clients.
Professor Stephen Cunnane of the university of Sherbrooke in Montreal
Canada will present a live broadcast presentation from Canada sharing
cutting-edge information from the effects
ketones on the aging brain and how to use ketones to benefit cognitive
function. Cynthia Thurlow 2-time TEDx speaker and nurse practitioner will
present the life-changing strategies on intermittent fasting that will blow
through any barriers, you may run into. We have invited Dr. Ali Al Lawati an
internal medicine specialist practicing in Oman in the Middle East he will share
his low-carb ketogenic strategies on the endocrine system and tell how he uses
this diet in clinical practice. Ivor Cummins author and biomechanical
engineer will bring his knowledge of the effects of the ketogenic diet on the
cardiovascular system explaining it in simple terms and presenting the latest
research in coronary artery calcification testing. Dr. Nadir Ali
is an interventional cardiologist who will be sharing cutting-edge information
on cholesterol LDL and the ketogenic diet. This is a must for anyone who starts the
ketogenic diet Stephani Person will be there, she is
Keto Coach, a social media influencer and a consultant who has introduced the
ketogenic diet to thousands of people around the world she will share her most
popular practical tips to take your results to the next level, then we have
Siim Land he's an author researcher and bio hacker from Estonia as an expert and
intermittent fasting and exercise he will share some amazing
research on longevity and body composition from his latest book the metabolic autophagy and
last but not least due to popular demand we are bringing back Nikolaos Tsokanos
from Greece, his amazing story will blow you away
he will discuss his secrets he used to become the first keto intermittent
fasting Ironman athlete in Europe, and how he transformed his body
to sign up, get registered today and be part of this amazing experience we will
see you there!
