We are excited to bring you the 2020 Virtual Healthy Keto Summit this August
29th and 30th this event will be completely online broadcasted to you
remotely so you can attend the event from the privacy of your own home get
ready to take your knowledge of keto and fasting to a whole new level learn from
top experts you'll also be able to ask the speakers questions from our Q&A
panel on Saturday and Sunday here's a short summary of the speakers and topics
this year. Author and YouTube educator Dr. Eric Berg will be presenting some
fascinating information on nutritional deficiencies when doing both keto and
intermittent fasting Dr. Jeff Gerber is also coming he is a board certified
family physician and known as Denver's diet doctor he will be teaching you
about the anti-aging effects of the ketogenic diet and much more Dr. Gerber
also puts on one of the largest low-carb keto conventions each year in Denver
Colorado. Author researcher Dr. Eric Westman will
be speaking he is the director of Duke lifestyle medicine clinic and brings
incredible practical Keto knowledge from working one-on-one with tens of
thousands of clients. Professor, Stephen Cunnane of the university of Sherbrooke
in Montreal Canada will present a live broadcast presentation from Canada
sharing cutting-edge information on the effects of ketones on the aging brain
and how to use ketones to benefit cognitive function. Cynthia Thurlow
two-time TEDx speaker and nurse practitioner will present the
life-changing strategies on intermittent fasting that will blow through any
barriers you may run into. We have invited Dr. Alial Lawati an internal
medicine specialist practicing in Oman in the Middle East he will share his
low-carb ketogenic strategies on the endocrine system and tell how he uses
this diet in clinical practice. Ivor Cummins author and biomechanical engineer
will bring his knowledge of the effects of the ketogenic
on the cardiovascular system explaining it in simple terms and presenting the
latest research in coronary artery calcification testing. Dr. Nadir Ali
and interventional cardiologists will be sharing cutting-edge information on
cholesterol LDL and the ketogenic diet. This is a must for anyone who starts the
ketogenic diet. Stephani Person will be there she is
a keto coach, a social-media influencer and a consultant who has introduced the
ketogenic diet to thousands of people around the world she will share her most
popular practical tips to take your results to the next level then we have
Siim Land he's an author researcher and biohacker from Estonia as an expert in
intermittent fasting and exercise he will share some amazing research on
longevity in body composition from his latest book the Metabolic Autophagy
and last but not least due to popular demand we are bringing back Nikolas
Tsokanos from Greece his amazing story will blow you away he will discuss his
secrets he used to become the first Keto Intermittent Fasting Ironman athlete in
Europe and tell how it transformed his body
Get ready to be a part of this amazing virtual event!
